review : ghost dog : the way of the samurai ( 1999 ) 
cast : forest whitaker , henry silva , cliff gorman , john tormey , gene riffini , victor argo , tricia vessey , isaach de bankole' , camille winbush director : jim jarmusch writer : jim jarmusch 
rating : good shot ( stars ) 
languid , yet pointed and focused , ghost dog : the way of the samurai sublimely savages our cultural fascination with the mafia and the sleek , ultra-cool , cinematic image of the hitman . 
juxtaposing the samurai's honor code of feudal japan against the tradition bound modus operandi of the american/italian mafia , it ceaselessly chips away with a sculptor's precision at the archaic foundations of both as they lumber , dinosaur-like , to function in the modern era . 
director jarmusch gleefully plays the iconoclast , ripping into mafioso precepts with splashes of acidic wit . 
using a palate of bleached colors , jarmusch lugubriously maintains a tone of desolation that belies the many sparks of laugh out loud humor punctuating the film . 
he doesn't cater to audience expectations of hyper-colorized , stylized violence and gunplay where no one dies . 
the action is presented in flat , brutal codas . 
bullets have permanence . 
death has consequences . 
the movie rises beyond standard conventions to become a meditation on the concepts of honor and loyalty . 
it is an anti-movie , of sorts . 
there are few photogenic , empathetic characters for the audience to fall in love with . 
this isn't a film that lovingly holds your hand . 
there are dark , contemplative moments and the film firmly holds you by the shoulder , just so , asserting itself for all to see . 
the fulcrum for the movie's thematic balancing act is ghost dog , a mafia hitman . 
a twist on the stereotypical image of the mob enforcer , ghost dog is a hilarious contradiction in terms . 
unlike the sleek , muscular killing machines one is accustomed to , we are given an inner city black man who is overweight and slovenly , replete with chapped , dirty hands and rumpled clothing . 
he wears a hooded sweatshirt , which he often pulls over his head , giving him a monk-like appearance . 
there are no acrobatic back flips and shiny super guns in his arsenal . 
he uses old , worn weapons and simply goes about his tasks in economical , efficient and pleasureless fashion . 
ghost dog is a disciple of the old ways of the samurai , distilling the essence of his life through the filter of a book , which he reads daily , hagakure : the way of the samurai . 
life consists of simple pleasures for him : ice cream , warm rooftop naps and good books . 
ghost dog lives , as it were , by the basic tenet expressed by his book ; one should start each day considering oneself as dead . 
living atop an abandoned building , surrounded by his flock of pet carrier pigeons , ghost dog exists in a netherworld lacking creature comforts and friends . 
he craves nothing more . 
as he puts it late in the film , " i've seen all i want to see . " 
he exists in a spiritual world of the mind , gaining moral sustenance from his readings . 
ghost dog wasn't always as he is presented . 
in several roshomon-like flashbacks , it's shown how ghost dog was assaulted by racist white males and beaten nearly to death until the timely intervention of a good samaritan , that " samaritan " being a foot soldier in an aging crime family . 
ghost dog pledges his life to the service of the man , louie ( tormey ) , as repayment . 
after years of loyal service , ghost dog is sent , by louie , to kill " handsome frank " , a made man within louie's organization who has run away with the crime boss's daughter , louise ( vessey ) . 
ghost dog wordlessly executes his task , witnessed by louise , whom he spares , as she sits watching a betty boop cartoon , clutching a copy of the book , roshomon . 
in a bit of synchronicity , louise loans the book to ghost dog . 
upset that frank was taken out by someone not from the family , the mob bosses , in turn , put out a hit on ghost dog in a perverse twist of loyalty to their assassinated comrade . 
the rest of movie holds the dated value systems of both the mafia and ghost dog up to the light of a new millennium with many acerbic asides as the two come factions come into conflict . 
the theme of old cartoons flares up time and again , each time showing cartoon violence that is in sharp counterpoint to the reality of ghost dog's world . 
each time a character is shown watching a cartoon , it's from the same era , betty boop , felix the cat , etc . , a reflection of days gone by . 
near the end , louise is watching a cartoon that's a departure from the previously shown ones . 
it's a bit of audacity on jarmusch's part that is nicely effective , despite it's surrealistic nature . 
as ghost dog floats through his world , his life is touched by two people . 
one is a sage little girl ( winbush ) who connects with ghost dog through their love of reading . 
she comes to symbolize a melding of the old ways and new sensibilities , just as louise ultimately does . 
by film's end , the fact that jamusch is so effective at illustrating the tenuous bond between the two is a testament to his skill as a writer . 
the other person in ghost dog's world is an ice cream ( de bankole' ) vendor who only speaks french , yet intuitively shares a rapport with ghost dog . 
the vendor is the literal stranger in a strange land . 
jarmusch , through rapper/composer rza , underscores his film with rap and reggae music , which at first blush seems dichotomous , but its primal rhythms serve to strengthen the fundamental nature of the movie . 
ghost dog seems to draw some type of strength from the rap music he listens to as he negotiates the streets in various stolen cars . 
 ( which , in and of itself , presents another paradox about ghost's dog's sense of honor . ) 
the head mafioso is played by henry silva with a stone faced resignation . 
of all the cartoonish mobsters , he is the only one who appears self aware of his state in the world . 
gorman plays sonny , a lieutenant who respects the old ways , yet has a quirky affinity for rap music , a love comically shown in several impromptu displays . 
ruffini seems the truest reflection of the mafia . 
he is a husk of a man , assisted by two hearing aids , who barks out advice without truly hearing what he , or others are saying . 
whitaker carries the film by using what truly great actor's use , his face . 
ghost dog is reticent to speak , often going for long periods without doing so . 
the fact that whitaker can convey such a wide range of emotion through a gesture or look is a remarkable talent . 
although the film has a deliberate pace , some of the late night drives and walks taken by ghost dog dragged the momentum down . 
truly tragic is how ghost dog misinterprets japanese honor in his final confrontation with the mob . 
he reveals himself to be so desperate for spiritual guidance through the hagakure that he fails to truly adapt it to what is real and true in his world . 
carried on the shoulders of a remarkable performance by whitaker , ghost dog rises beyond being a characterization or icon , into a figure that garners sympathy , if not a bit of pity . 
i rented " brokedown palace " last night blind , having heard nothing about it beforehand , and i enjoyed it immensely despite some flaws . 
for anyone wishing to have the same experience i would suggest reserving judgement of the movie until viewing it in its entirety . 
that is no easy task . 
superficially , it bears an unfortunate ( and not necessarily unintended ) resemblance to several other movies , notably " return to paradise " and " midnight express . " 
as a result nearly every review of " brokedown palace " i subsequently read became hopelessly entangled in making the obvious comparisons . 
the consequence was nearly universal condemnation , which is a shame as this is a fine film . 
for those who have yet to view the movie , let me say that it is not an attempt to portray the nightmarish reality of the third world criminal justice system ( as was " midnight express " ) nor completely the moral dilemma and examination of the meaning of friendship and humanity that was the heart of " return to paradise . " 
in my view , if this film is to be compared to any other source it would have to be joseph conrad's acclaimed novel , " lord jim . " 
problematically , the basic storyline seems more than familiar : two american teenage girls on vacation are sentenced to spend most of their lives in a thai prison for drug smuggling in an obvious set-up involving a suave con-man , a shadowy criminal conspiracy and a corrupt third world " justice " system . 
the girls are alice ( claire danes ) and darlene ( kate beckinsale ) . 
they're life-long buddies who planned a high-school graduation trip to hawaii , and then secretly changed their destination to the more exotic thailand without telling their parents . 
once there , they find a $6 hotel and go sight-seeing , which includes sneaking into a luxury hotel to sip expensive drinks poolside . 
they get caught trying to charge the bill to the wrong room , a minor transgression which will later come back to haunt them , but they are saved from hotel security by a charming , friendly australian , nick ( daniel lapaine ) , who takes care of the bill with a more polished execution of the girl's scam . 
he then proceeds to separate the girls and make smooth moves , first toward alice , then toward darlene . 
by now alarm bells are going off among viewers . 
the ever-present nick is too slick and his stories don't add up ( to us ) --the girls , of course , are too naive to notice . 
long before it happens , we're anticipating the inevitable disappearance of the fast-talking smuggler and the arrest of our teenaged sitting-ducks at the airport en route to hong kong caught holding the bag ( literally ) containing heroin . 
just as predictably , the thai police and courts do their part in meting out injustice and our trusting tourists are prison-bound for a long stretch . 
left unanswered is the red herring issue of whether one or the other of the girls was a willing accomplice . 
for those in need of a ready answer , might i suggest closer scrutiny of the bell hop at the girl's fleabag hotel . 
as one door after another to their comfortable former life is closed , the girls and their families turn in desperation to the noiresque expatriate lawyer/fixer " yankee hank " ( bill pullam ) and his thai-born partner-wife . 
a recurring element of the movie is the tension between appearance and reality as expressed in one of the film's tag lines , " who do you trust ? , " and hank is no exception although seasoned movie- goers and those familiar with pullman's oeuvre will find few surprises . 
much of the remainder of the movie is a smorgasbord of intriguing themes incompletely explored in short-hand fashion . 
lou diamond phillips , for instance , plays a delightfully sinister and callous dea agent who , while appearing to be casually accommodating to hank , withholds vital information at crucial moments . 
is he part of a wider conspiracy ? 
with an inherently powerful , if somewhat tired premise , the film offers by parts a riveting courtroom drama , a prison story , and a potential character study of american teens , their relationship , and what constitutes friendship between them . 
the result is reasonably engaging and suspenseful , with the girls' interaction , hank's investigation , and the various trials and hearings , offering hope for their release , delivering tension--as does the foredoomed possibility of their escape . 
if " brokedown palace " has a major flaw , it is its creators' tendency , like time-constrained tourists , to take frequent side trips down fascinating alleys only to reverse direction half-way down and return to the story's main avenue . 
and , if that were all there was to " brokedown palace , " it wouldn't be a very good movie . 
but i believe the writers and director were after bigger game and , in this , they succeeded . 
for the main theme of the movie , like the proffered name of its location , is freedom--in all its permutations . 
ultimately , the other sub-themes may be considered window dressing . 
young and pretty , alice ( danes ) is an old soul ; a wild , streetwise teenager with a thirst for freedom and adventure . 
presented as a perfect blend of yin and yang , dark and light , is her cautious best friend , darlene ( beckinsale ) . 
clear-eyed and straightforward , alice is more complex than her friend . 
she comes from a poorer background , has a reputation for getting into trouble and has lost the trust of everyone ( including her own father ) . 
whereas darlene's life is " on-track , " aimed at college , marriage , kids , a career , a suburban home , middle age and " fulfillment , " alice's is uncertain , unfocused , and yearning . 
one poignant scene in the film shows darlene shouting across an open moat to visitors--friends and relatives from home , whose lives continue while hers is in limbo . 
tellingly , alice is present but not included . 
just as revealing of their different personalities , when alice and dar first come to thailand , the openness and delight on alice's face doesn't read as simple naivet ? ; the way she stands up and stretches as she and her friend ride along in a small boat , reaching toward the sun , she really is drinking in what she believes to be freedom , while " dar " remains seated in the shade . 
 " brokedown palace " begins with an admission by alice of her guilt in a tape recording sent to hank . 
however unintentional , it's all alice's fault . 
she's responsible for persuading her friend to lie to her parents , to sneak away from the safety of hawaii to the perils of thailand , to try the petty scam which places them in the clutches of the evil nick . 
 ( in case one misses this point in the inevitable confusion of a film's beginning , darlene obligingly reminds alice of her culpability in prison . ) 
dar , of course , is the willing dupe which , in her view , confers innocence . 
never mind that it was her coercion of a reluctant alice to accompany her to hong kong which placed them in police custody in the first place or that her naive confession sealed their fate . 
dar is innocent . 
it doesn't matter . 
alice is the subject of this movie . 
she and her journey toward personal freedom . 
along the way we are treated to an unsympathetic portrait of the shallow american culture which created these girls with their half-baked sensibilities and materialistic goals . 
in the end , that culture , like its representatives , " yankee " hank and dar's father ( a " man who knows how to grease the wheels " ) , proves as impotent as its government in the face of the girl's tragedy . 
thailand's culture , contrary to most opinion , comes off much better by comparison . 
it amazes me that reviewers argued this point at both extremes . 
i believe the filmmaker's view was that thai culture is vastly different from the american but not necessarily inferior . 
the thai ( with the sole exceptions of a corrupt official and a spiteful prison spy ) were uniformly consistent in their behavior and true to their principles . 
the girls were shown to be treated no better but certainly no worse than the native-born . 
their prison ( in stark contrast to the probable reality ) was no hellhole , being relatively clean and sunlit . 
the prison authorities demanded good hygiene , provided medical care when needed , and " hard manual labor " consisted of picking grass ! 
the thai guards were authoritarian ( what else ? ) but certainly not routinely sadistic . 
as for the thai justice system , the reasoning of the thai judges , during both an appeal hearing and in the film's penultimate scene was devastating in its logic and morality . 
'freedom' has many faces and " brokedown palace " explores many of them . 
in the extreme , we have freedom of the body and freedom of the spirit . 
some settle for the former alone while others remain imprisoned with an entire nation to roam without the latter . 
but freedom seldom comes without a price . 
which is why the movie's other tag lines are : " what is your dream ? " 
and " how far would you go ? " 
i believe i could make a good case for the interpretation that the person who attains freedom , incarcerated or not , by film's end is alice . 
she finds redemption and salvation through the acceptance of personal responsibility . 
i think the light bathing only her figure among the assembled prisoners in the final scene visually signals that fact . 
kate beckinsale's character might more properly be likened to the " released " temple bird referred to twice during the film , " trained to fly back to its cage . " 
as the thai magistrate observed in the film's climactic scene , the issue was always one of " character ; " and the jamaican prisoner made it clear that " freedom " is achieved within oneself . 
if one thinks back over the movie , which character was transformed by their experiences ? 
increasingly , the cinema landscape seems to have become littered with endless permutations of 'kung fu woman'--female characters virtually indistinguishable from male action figures . 
here , at last , is the story of a modern heroine . 
in reading the many user's comments , i was struck by what seems an unusual phenomenon : whether or not a person liked the movie , almost everyone praised the actors . 
think about that . 
when was the last time you came away from a motion picture possibly hating it , but raving about all the performances in it ? 
do yourself a favor : rent " brokedown palace " and watch it with a open mind . 
there's more there than meets the eye . 
everyone's heard about this movie , and more specifically , * the * scene . 
everyone's heard the famous barnyard animal quote squealed ( no pun intended ) over and over . 
and everyone's got to admit that they will never travel down a river again without thinking of deliverance . 
good ! 
that's what you're supposed to do ! 
oh , if you are one of the ones who hasn't seen this yet , or you ( somehow ) haven't heard about what happens , here's your spoiler warning . 
deliverance was a real shocker for it's time ( 1972 ) . 
major advances were being made in films , and deliverance made its own advances when it introduced a new horror into the film industry . 
when it was first released , it literally shocked the audiences . 
it was something that , for the most part , had really never been seen on the big screen before ( among wide-release films with an r rating ) . 
but by today's film standards and in today's world , such scenes as the one in deliverance can be reproduced in a way that isn't as shocking , although they can be even more graphic ( e . g . 
pulp fiction ) . 
pulp fiction did it in a way , and expanded on it in a way , that it could even be interpreted as funny . 
but in 1972 , deliverance was no laughing matter . 
the story centers around a group of four atlanta men who decide to take a rafting trip down a backwoods river in georgia while the river is still there and in its glory . 
the initial leader of the group is lewis ( burt reynolds in his prime ) , a real outdoorsman and more of a daniel boone-type then any of the others . 
joining him are ed ( jon voight ) , bobby ( ned beatty ) , and drew ( ronny cox ) . 
the group's first objective is to find someone ( s ) to drive their cars down the river to the point where they will end their trip . 
they make arrangements with a few mountain men , who accept $40 . 00 for the task . 
drew also has the famous " dueling banjos " competition with a local who is , let us say , genetically challenged . 
the men then set off down the river , with lewis , also the master at canoeing , leading the way . 
everything seems to be going fine , until the two canoes split up , leaving the unexperienced ed and bobby alone . 
they encounter two hillbillies , armed with a shotgun , who captured them . 
ed is tied to a tree while bobby is sodomized by one of the men . 
ed nearly receives the same cruelty , but lewis arrives just in time to fire an arrow through the rapist's back . 
the other hillbilly gets away , and the men have to decide what to do with the dead body . 
disposing of dead bodies is done rather frequent throughout this film . 
while attempting to make a quick " paddle for it " , both canoes tip over . 
drew , who was without a life jacket , was possibly shot and cannot be found . 
lewis suffered a rather nasty compound fracture during the incident and is in serious condition . 
this leaves ed and bobby . 
ed decides to go out and look for the remaining hillbilly , alone , with the bow and arrow . 
the question arises if he will be able to handle himself , as he horribly botched a first shot attempt at a deer , to which his comment " i wonder how anyone could kill a living thing " will have more meaning in the future . 
deliverance is definitely a wild ride ( oops , i'm doing it again ) . 
it is extremely tense at some points and very dramatic . 
it's definitely one of those " must see " movies and should be considered one of the classics of its decade . 
in october of 1997 , audiences were dazzled by the horror surprise hit i know what you did last summer . 
the film went on to gross over 70 million dollars in the u . s . , and even developed a cult following , much like the previous year's 100 million dollar grossing scream . 
when the trailer hit theaters in september attached to urban legend , it looked like a wonderful follow-up . 
did it live up to the first film ? 
the answer is no . 
jennifer love hewitt returns as julie james , a survivor of the serial killer that attempted to kill her and her friends a year before . 
she has been so upset since the incident . 
nightmares haunt her all over the place , but she has to move on . 
she know attends college , and is best friends with a funny , outgoing girl named karla ( brandy ) , who is trying to hook julie up with will benson , played by newcomer matthew settle . 
karla's boyfriend is tyrell , the funny , outgoing type , who is played by soul food's mekhi phifer . 
freddie prinze jr . also returns as ray , julie's boyfriend from a year ago . 
one morning , julie and karla are called up by a local radio station who are offering four tickets to the bahamas if they can correctly identify the capital of brazil . 
of course , they answer it correctly , and they are off to the bahamas . 
julie wants ray to come , but he declines the offer , so karla secretly invites will instead to help boost her plan of hooking him up with julie . 
after they arrive at their hotel , it is just them and the staff on the island . 
it starts off as the weekend of their dreams . 
something just had to come to mess up the one care-free weekend of julie's life though . 
ben willis ( muse watson ) is back , and he isn't letting anyone survive this time . 
will ray come to the rescue before he can kill them off one by one ? 
jennifer love hewitt and brandy turn in respectable performances . 
brandy in particular was impressive , considering this is her first feature film . 
you could see that the characters were horrified , and they would do anything possible to survive . 
matthew settle and freddie prinze jr . are a completely different story . 
let's start with settle . 
matthew is completely fake in this film . 
you could not believe a word coming out of his mouth . 
you could tell he was acting , and its reasons like him that this one isn't as good as the first one . 
he does do a good job towards the end , but that doesn't clear up the scars he already left on the film . 
freddie prinze jr . is almost as bad as matthew settle was . 
he is almost completely unbelievable , and the majority of his lines are completely meaningless and out of place . 
we don't see him as much as settle , otherwise he could have done just as much damage as settle did . 
mekhi phifer is alright as tyrell , but yet again the dialogue is out of place . 
the plot of i still know turns out to be a pretty good one at the end of the movie . 
i like where the filmmakers went with this second installment , but maybe if it occurred in the same town as the first one , it would have been a bit better . 
the cinematography and setting of their island are simply wonderful . 
there are a lot of very nice shots around their hotel . 
the sound is pretty good , but still not as creepy as the first film's . 
jennifer love hewitt's song , " how do i deal " is also played for about thirty seconds . 
i still know what you did last summer is nothing compared to the first film . 
the first film was very suspenseful , and it contained some very memorable scenes . 
the last fifteen minutes of i still know what you did last summer really picked up , and almost reached the same level as the first film . 
before this part in the film , there are many unnecessary deaths and fake scares . 
that is okay though , because the film is still very much fun and there are a few suspenseful scenes . 
i think the reason this film wasn't as scary as the original was because in the first one , the killer terrorized the people involved in the incident . 
he made them suffer for what they did . 
in the second film , ben willis just kills anyone he feels like . 
he doesn't stick with ray and julie , who were the ones he is actually after . 
he had to go after karla , will , and tyrell . 
if the characters he stalked were in some relation to the incident that went on when he was ran over by julie , ray , helen , and barry , it could have been much better , and it would have made a lot more sense . 
the bottom line- not a disappointment , but a third in the series would be out of hand . 
brian depalma needs a hit * really * badly . 
since scoring big with the untouchables in 1987 , depalma has seen casualties of war , raising cain and particularly the disastrous bonfire of the vanities go down in flames . 
consequently , it would be easy enough to consider carlito's way a shrewd commercial choice for depalma , reteaming with al pacino ( scarface ) and returning to the gangland ground which has yielded his two greatest box office successes . 
it doesn't hurt any that he has latched on to a solid story and brought out dynamite performances from pacino and sean penn . 
carlito's way , while hampered by depalma's characteristic excesses and stylistic cannibalism , is a truly tense and engrossing drama . 
carlito brigante ( pacino ) is a life-long criminal who finds himself unexpectedly given a second chance . 
in 1975 , carlito is released from prison after serving only five years of a thirty year sentence when his conviction is overturned on a technicality . 
he declares himself reformed , tired of life on the streets and determined to fulfill his simple dream of buying into a rental car business in the bahamas . 
among those who find this conversion hard to believe are david kleinfeld ( penn ) , carlito's crooked attorney and childhood friend , and bodyguard pachanga ( luis guzman ) . 
carlito rediscovers old flame gail ( penelope ann miller ) , and seems ready to retire in peace . 
old ways die hard , though , and old associates pull carlito step by step back into a life he can't seem to shake . 
carlito's way will probably make the strongest impression with the two outstanding set pieces which bracket the film . 
in the first , carlito accompanies his young cousin on a drug buy which will have anyone with a pulse on the edge of their seat ; the film closes with an equally thrilling chase through the new york subway and grand central station . 
both highlight depalma's gift for choreographed mayhem , and these are not the only occasions when the stage blood flows freely . 
yet for all the viscera , i found the character study even more compelling . 
carlito brigante has a lot of michael corleone in him , an aging gangster trying unsuccessfully to go legit . 
but where the culmination of the godfather saga played like opera , there's more of an immediacy to carlito's way , an ever-present sense of doom launched by the title sequence which sets the flashback story in motion . 
you sense that there's no way , after so many years , that carlito can stay out of trouble . 
indeed , he observes that his attempt at the straight life is more a function of time than a change of heart : " you don't get reformed ; you just run out of wind . " 
pacino captures carlito's dilemma with surprising subtlety and the cautious observation borne of years of experience watching every corner for an enemy . 
sean penn is even better , turning in his best performance to date as kleinfeld . 
a jew in the world of puerto rican and italian wiseguys , kleinfeld is an outsider with a huge chip on his shoulder . 
he could have been simply pathetic , a heavy drinker and cocaine addict playing tough with guys way out of his league , but penn invests kleinfeld with tremendous nervous energy and an overwhelming survival instinct . 
he shows a man moving steadily towards the brink , making the moment he goes over quite jolting . 
as compelling as the narrative is , viewers may experience a profound sense of deja vu . 
depalma continues to steal shamelessly from other directors , this time adding scorsese to his repertoire with a point of view tracking shot and a copacabana scene with more than passing resemblances to goodfellas . 
he even recycles some of his own previous plagiarisms , like a 360 degree swing around a kiss ( vertigo via body double ) and the climactic shootout which will strike many as far too reminiscent of the train station sequence from the untouchables . 
from a story standpoint , there's an obligatory love story with a cliche'd long-suffering girlfriend character . 
penelope ann miller is a good but limited actor who doesn't do anything new with the role , and eventually she becomes just a distraction , never integrated fully enough into the story . 
still , it's easier to be forgiving of superficial flaws when the backbone is so solid . 
the two principle characters held an iron grip on my attention , one all the cinematic thievery in the world couldn't break . 
carlito's way plays like a tragic novel : deliberate , confident and powerful . 
those willing to grant depalma his tendencies towards the extreme should find themselves well- rewarded . 
i've never been a huge fan of jeff bridges , but i loved him in the big lebowski . 
the part of jeff " the dude " lebowski was reportedly written specifically with bridges in mind , and the fit is perfect . 
the dude is an unemployed denizen of los angeles , a hippie slob on a bowling team with a soft spot for white russians . 
he's enjoying a leisurely soak in the tub when two thugs break into his apartment demanding to be paid for the money his wife owes . 
after much pleading he convinces them they have the wrong guy , but not before they urinate on his rug . 
the dude assumes that these " collection agents " were after another jeff lebowski , a famous millionaire who also lives in l . a . so he goes to meet his namesake to ask for enough money to replace his rug . 
the millionaire refuses , but calls him back when he discovers his wife has been kidnaped . 
he wants the dude to act as go-between for the kidnapers . 
dude and his friend walter ( john goodman ) take on the task , and get caught in an intricate web of kidnapers , millionaires , high schoolers , nihilists , artists , pornographers , thugs , and league bowlers . 
comedy is perhaps the most subjective of genres , so take my recommendation as you will : for me , the big lebowski is very funny . 
it is an incredibly successful comedy , the ratio of laughs to intended jokes much higher than in most films . 
not only are the two leads ( bridges and goodman ) funny separately and together , but each supporting character is a refreshing comic figure . 
all the characters end up as the butt of jokes , but the jokes are always deserved and never contrived . 
each person may be a comic caricature , but there is always a respectful self-acceptance that lets us laugh at these people without condescension . 
the characters are firmly established , and they never change their behavior for a quick , cheap laugh . 
it's not what they do that's funny , it's who they are , which is why the acting is so important , and so successful , in this movie . 
worth mentioning are john turturro as jesus ( that's jee-zus , not hay-soos ) , the greaser bowler who's in a lusty marriage with the game ; julianne moore as the post-post-feminist artist whose work has been described as " vaginal ; " steve buscemi as the eager tagalong bowler who is constantly rebuked and ignored by teammates dude and walter ; and sam elliott as the rambling , long-winded narrator . 
aside from the performances , what makes all the characters funny and interesting is the astute dialogue . 
people lose trains of thought , they interrupt , they boast , they repeat themselves , they repeat their friends . . . 
they sound natural . 
taken with fargo , the coen brothers' last film , it is evidence that the brothers are observant listeners and gifted writers . 
ethan coen is not just good at directing actors , he's also good at technical directing . 
he and cinematographr roger deakins created a beautiful world on film . 
perhaps " beautiful " is the wrong word ; nihilists , carpet-pissers and thugs are not objects of beauty . 
but the bowling photography and a series of viking/bowling fantasy dream sequences are lovingly photographed , as though the dude himself were in charge of immortalizing them on film . 
all around , the big lebowski is great , solid comedy . 
outstanding acting , writing , direction and photography all combine to make this a great comic success . 
synopsis : captain picard and the crew of the starship enterprise disobey federation orders and defend a peaceful community of 600 , the ba'ku , from the evil admiral dougherty and ru'afro . 
the enterprise crew , in the meantime , experience the rejuvenating qualities of the ba'ku homeworld : lt . worf grows a pimple , data sings opera pieces , picard scores with a ba'ku chick , riker shaves while sharing a bubblebath with troi , and the enterprise women note their firmer breasts . 
comments : " star trek : the next generation " was a hugely successful sequel tv series to " star trek , " a science fiction series which developed a devoted fan following in the 1970s . 
even though it still enjoyed high ratings , " star trek : the next generation " ended production after seven years so that the cast could replace the original " star trek " 's cast in paramount's film franchise centering on the voyages of the starship enterprise . 
star trek : insurrection is the ninth " star trek " movie and the third to focus on the " star trek : the next generation " crew . 
star trek : insurrection qualifies as one of those movies star trek fans , such as myself , would rate somewhere between " okay " and " good . " 
after star trek v : the final frontier , a nearly awful movie almost as bad as the repugnant " star trek : voyager " tv series , " star trek " fans could probably swallow anything paramount throws out in the trek film franchise . 
i don't wish to spend this review comparing insurrection to the eight other trek movies . 
most people reading this probably haven't followed " star trek " anyway , so a comparison would seem tedious at best . 
let me , thus , make my comparisons briefly so that it's out of my system : star trek : insurrection is not as good as the previous installment , star trek : first contact ; star trek : insurrection's comic tone may be best compared to star trek iv : the voyage home ; star trek ii : the wrath of khan is still the best trek movie . 
okay . let's move to the movie itself . 
star trek : insurrection infuses a basic science fiction premise , humanity's exploration and colonization of space , with a lot of lowbrow humor and witty oneliners . 
this combination works well more often than it fails , but when it does fail , the humor really seems cheesy . 
much of this film appeals to trek fans' nostalgic fondness for the starship enterprise's crew . 
audiences unfamiliar with trek lore may miss the significance of some plot points and may even become confused at times . 
star trek : insurrection begins with scenes of the tranquil life on the ba'ku homeworld . 
forget the actors and special effects , the beautiful setting of this movie , with its snowy mountaintops and verdant valleys , steals the show . 
this tranquility , however , is broken by data , an android , who reveals to the ba'ku that they are being secretly monitored by the federation and their alien allies , the son'a . 
it seems that this world is a veritable fountain of youth , sustaining its inhabitants indefinantly in a young , healthy state . 
the enterprise crew , led by captain picard , investigates data's actions and uncovers a conspiracy between the son'a and an enterprise admiral to relocate the ba'ku and plunder the planet's youth-restoring properties . 
sound pretty heavy ? 
it is , though this plot , anything but unique and groundbreaking , is undermined by the film's constant barrage of humor . 
when going after data , for instance , picard sings an opera piece with him ( this is supposed to be cute and humorous ) . 
in a much more funny sequence , work grows a large pimple on the side of his nose as a result of his exposure to the ba'ku homeworld , a pimple which his crewmates , try as they might , cannot avoid looking at . 
the acting in star trek : insurrection is , for the most part , pretty good . 
since they've been playing these characters for years , those portraying the enterprise crew reassume their roles effortlessly enough . 
the terrific actor patrick stewart plays captain jean-luc picard and delivers a moral speech , picard's trademark , with his usual aplomb . 
brent spiner , another fine actor , plays the android data well enough again and provides the best moments of comic relief in the film ( though the old android-wishing-to-be-human motif will tire some trek fans familiar with the routine from the tv series ) . 
the supporting cast who appear in this movie alone are also pretty good . 
despite many other critics' negative opinions , f . murray abraham ( the winner of an academy award for his performance in amadeus ) plays the major villain ru'afro well enough . 
ru'afro reminds me , somewhat , of the baron harkonnen in the 1984 film version of dune . 
like the baron , ru'afro continuously has his skin looked after : it is stretched and stapled by servants . 
in one particularly memorable scene , ru'afro becomes very agitated , and his facial skin splits open and bleeds . 
ru'afro is no khan from star trek ii--the best trek villain ever--but he is much better than the forgettable dr . soran from star trek : generations . 
 ( okay , i promise , no more comparisons . ) 
donna murphy must also be noted as a ba'ku woman , anij , who picard falls in love with . 
murphy is not a young woman with a supermodel body ; she is a mature woman with an attractive countenance . 
this is the type of woman whom picard , for those who know the character well , would be enchanted with . 
in fact , the chemistry between murphy and stewart works very well here . 
a particular plot point involving anij's ability to slow time down , an ability which she shares with picard , becomes one of the most intriguing parts of the movie . 
for as good as the actors and setting were , star trek : insurrection's special effects were surprisingly disappointing . 
they proved adequate , sometimes barely , for a 1990s mainstream science fiction film , but they fell way short of the standard trek movie and paled in comparison to those seen in the trailer for star wars : the phantom menace ( a trailer which reportedly preceded many showings of insurrection ) . 
the space battles involving the enterprise and sona ships , in particular , seemed trite and unsuspenseful , and the final confrontation between picard and ru'afro took place on a completely unconvincing interior of a satellite . 
the new enterprise itself , only seen in this film and its predecessor , remains largely unexplored , though its exterior doesn't look quite right for a reason i cannot explain . 
despite star trek : insurrection's frequent comic goofiness and occasional substandard special effects , i enjoyed the film . 
it maintains roddenberry's largely optimistic view of the future and rejects the gritty violence of its predecessors , particularly star trek : first contact ( though , don't get me wrong , the dark tones of trek films like first contact can work very successfully ) . 
i'd recommend insurrection as a matinee film for a saturday afternoon , especially for fans of trek or science fiction in general . 
rated pg , i can't see this film being objectionable to the viewing audience , young or old . 
us critic-type people are always shaking our heads and telling everyone that movies aren't thrill rides , but i think that " back to the future ii " is one of the few exceptions . 
if the original film had the spirit of the 1950s , then this has the spirit of the 80s : full of fights ; chase scenes ; cliff hangers ; special effects ; some detective work ; and of course the vision of the high-tech future . 
the film picks up exactly where the first film left off , with doc ( lloyd ) , marty ( fox ) , and jennifer ( elizabeth shue ) travelling 30 years into the future , because something bad is going to happen to marty and jennifer's kids . 
doc tells marty he must take his son's place at an incident that will cause a chain reaction if marty mcfly jr . says yes to griff ( wilson - in one of four different roles ) . 
whoever said history tends to repeat itself wasn't joking , especially when it comes to the movies . 
essentially the same chase scene that marty endured in the 50s takes place again in the year 2015 , but it's not as authentically exciting this time because it is so obviously a parody of itself . 
at the end of the situation marty has changed the course of history for the better , and it seems like everything's copasetic right ? 
wrong . 
since when do things go according to plan in the " back to the future " movies ? 
there are so many minor conflicts and details that effect the plot and the direction of the story i won't even bother to list them all . 
basically we get to see marty as an old man , his house , his family , etc . we also go back to an alternate 1985 , and then back again to 1955 , with everything happening so fast the film never stops to catch a breath . 
the films' best aspect is the fact that it actually goes back to the first movie and shows a lot of the action that occurred from another angle . 
it's difficult to convey the sense of wild and zany fun without describing every little detail . 
the only thing sacrificed in this film is the suspense . 
instead of a grand finale , we get lots of little victories . 
by the end everything is back to normal , but something happens that leads to yet another sequel , but it doesn't seem gratuitous . 
 " back to the future part ii " is a really great adventure movie . 
it certainly has more originality than other films but it lacks a certain charm that was dominate throughout its predecessor . 
magnolia left me relling from the theatre , staggering from the relentless assault of an adventurous director reveling in his craft . 
at nearly three and a half hours , magnolia will strike some as a brute of a film . 
it not only demands your attention , but challenges you to grasp the significance of seemingly unrelated storylines and hidden intentions . 
it is delirious , depressing , heady , pretentious , surreal filmmaking . 
it's also a movie that will polarize its viewers . 
director paul thomas anderson takes a talented cast , wraps them in a net of interrelated stories and sets them spinning in a symphony of despair whose song doesn't let up until an oddly exhilerating , biblically influenced pseudo-climax . 
the character's make up a modern day gomorrah in the soulless way in which they live their lives . 
there is frank mackey ( tom cruise ) , a slithery snake charmer of men whose " search and destroy " seminars teach how to mentally rape a woman to get into her pants . 
there is earl partridge ( jason robards ) , a dying media tycoon yearning to make amends for a lfe of callousness by finding his estranged son . 
there is game show host jimmy gator ( phillip baker hall ) , a self absorbed tv icon who is hiding more than a few secrets from his public . 
and there is police officer jim kurring ( john c . reilly ) , who cloaks himself in the codification of organized religion and the legal system , perhaps masking a man who needs rules to fuel his decision making process . 
given equal weight are stories involving a coke-addled emotional cripple ( melora walters ) , a former tv quiz show champion ( william h . macy ) . 
a materialistic , adulterous wife ( julianne moore ) , a child ( jeremy blackman ) victimized by a mentally abusive parent , and a caring , empathetic nurse ( philip seymour hoffman ) . 
hovering over all these characters is a cloud of death , lies and despair . 
it is not a pleasant movie . 
there is not one bad note in the acting . 
it is affecting and layered and wonderful . 
there is a moment where tom cruise wordlessly implodes that rivals work he has done in whole films . 
then he tops himself with a mesmerizing deathbed scene . 
walters plays her character with red-eyed rawness and a fierce self-destructiveness that is anxiety inducing . 
robards convincingly portrays a fading whisper of a man , who still hears a lion's roar when he speaks . 
director anderson has apparently given the actors lattitude to emote . 
the problem is that he stays on them too long . 
julianne moore's character , linda , quickly escalates to a frenzied pitch of guilt , tears , screaming and remorse and never backs off from it . 
after a few hours , it turns from interesting to chinese water torture . 
quite a few scenes , such as the game show , go on just a bit too long and will be off-putting for those used to a pat 90 minute film where the main theme is reiterated several times just in case you missed it the first go around . 
and just what is the theme ? 
alienation ? 
hopelessness ? 
anderson challenges you to draw your own conclusions and he doesn't make it easy . 
the film starts by showing three , strange and seemingly unrelated events . 
it's a harbinger of the synchronicity to come . 
at times , different stories reach reach key moments at the same time . 
other times , stories seem to veer off into uncharted territory , regardless of what else is happening . 
anderson is audacious enough to even have a group sing in the middle of the film ! 
what's surprising is that it mostly works . 
if you have doubts about anderson's intentions , i'll ask you to pay attention to the final frame . 
despite all the sturm und drang , magnolia ultimately speaks to man's capacity for hope and attempts at redemption . 
despite magnolia's needlessly long running time and its propensity for uneven editing as anderson plays the auteur , showing off fro the masses , i have to admire his guts . 
this is truly adventurous filmmaking that spits in the face of conventional storytelling . 
my rating : a bulleye . 
 ( stars ) 
a side note : helping anchor the film is a perfectly matched soundtrack featuring aimee mann . 
her lyrics often add depth to a scene thematically while the actual music is both morose and beautiful . 
when she sings " save me " at the end , it enhances the yearning felt by the characters , just as " wise up " mirrors the anguish felt by all as they contemplate their lives . 
a group of high school kids mix up with a group of hip-hop artists as a documentarian strives to discover why today's youth seem attracted to black culture . 
the review 
if black & white , the new film from writer/director james toback , is eventually remembered for only one thing , it will be the revelation that brooke shields , claudia schiffer , marla maples and mike tyson can act . 
however , this partly improvised gem will be remembered for more than that . 
black & white is a fascinating film ; it makes a statement about america's youth and hip-hop culture without getting heavy-handed overly serious . 
featuring a cast of known commodities ( ben stiller , robert downey jr . ) and hot newcomers ( singers bijou phillips ) , toback's is a complex film worth seeing . 
black & white has multiple storylines that are all related to each other , a la robert altman . 
there is dean the basketball player ( allan houston ) who is asked to rig games for money by mark clear ( stiller ) in exchange for fifty grand a game . 
this eventually spills over into the life of dean's long-time friend rich ( power ) , a gangsta who controls 20 city blocks of harlem . 
rich has to deal with the imminent opening of a white-owned club on his turf . 
meanwhile , the young white girls who like to hang around with rich and his homies get talked into being in a documentary by sam donager ( shields ) and her gay husband terry ( downey jr . ) . 
others who make appearances are william lee scott as the young white punk will , joe pantoliano as his district attorney father , jared leto as a high school teacher , marla maples as the mother of one of hip-hop crazed teens , claudia schiffer as dean's girlfriend , and mike tyson as . . . 
mike tyson . 
the stories ebb and flow through the film , losing and gaining prominence over time . 
friendships are lost , lovers are gained , and there is an occasional burst of violence . 
originally rated nc-17 in the united states , black & white features a lot of sex between black gangstas and young white girls . 
while the film was trimmed down to a tamer r rating , viewers will wonder what could be more explicit than what they are seeing . 
the three-way sexual beginning of the film nicely warns viewers of what they are in for , and several audience members got up and left at that point . 
the frequent sex is one of the film's few flaws as the titillation is overdone and at times completely unrelated to anything else going on in the film . 
to toback's credit , the level of violence in black & white is almost nil . 
these gangstas and hip-hop artists are given real problems and concerns , and only become gun-toting crazies when it benefits them to appear that way . 
whenever a character finds himself on donager's handheld digital camera , he starts spouting off righteous tirades on america and proclaims his independence , but not everyone has fully bought into the idea . 
charlie ( phillips ) is full of bluster about why she loves hip-hop , but admits that " in ten years time , i'll be way over this . " 
these youth know they are going through a phase , and are simply enjoying it . 
toback fills the spaces between these tirades with scenes that are lightweight and funny . 
most of the humour comes from mike tyson , who provides the film's comic relief without really trying . 
he is given big words like vernacular to say , and as rich tries to discuss a particular street problem with tyson , he frequently has to ask him to use smaller words and explain himself better , playing on tyson's image as a dimwit . 
but tyson also gets the film's scariest moment . 
as he is mercilessly hit upon by the very gay terry , tyson is a marvel to watch as he fights to remain calm . 
the scene is entirely improvised , with downey jr . being told to just keep at tyson until he gets a reaction . 
the reaction he gets , being slapped and then choked is astonishing , as downey jr's face turns a frightening shade of purple . 
black & white is a film about hip-hop culture , and the film's omnipresent hip-hop soundtrack strongly supports this . 
but toback keeps things from becoming too serious ; by moving from story to story as quickly as he does , toback keeps us from becoming attached to any one character's struggle . 
thus black & white's message about hip-hop becomes secondary to the film itself . 
toback just wants us to have fun and maybe learn a little about hip-hop along the way . 
and we do . 
one year has passed since the last time we saw them , and but wayne campbell and garth algar are back but , they've moved out of their parents homes , and now have their own pad in an abandoned warehouse . 
wayne's still hopelessly infatuated with his girlfriend , cassandra , and of course garth is still having his own , personal growing pains . 
they guys are just finishing off one of their shows , and head off to an aerosmith concert where they run across cassandra and her new manager , a stereotypical industry slime not unlike the character rob lowe portrayed in the previous film . 
again , the promoter is not only after the money that cassandra's talent can bring in . 
the storyline quickly degrades to a parallel of the original , " guy loses chick , guy realizes mistake , and guy gets chick back . " 
fortunately , there is more to this movie than this somewhat sheer plot . 
the wit and humor in this film are surprisingly intelligent and fresh with many inside jokes on the film and music industries as well as just a lot of hilarious scenes of wayne and garth showing their true color . 
highlights of the movie include a spoof of jurassic park , garth's seduction by a married woman , a surprise appearance by charleton heston , a 1960's batman setup in the guy's pad , and some pretty groovy chats with jim morrison and some " naked indian guy , " an unexpected lip-sync of ymca ( you could see that one coming a mile away ) and of course a hilarious parody of those badly-dubbed kung-fu movies we love to laugh at . 
and if you've ever wondered why there's always boxes of watermelons , chickens , and people walking plate glass in the middle of streets , you'll find out here . 
this movie also explores wayne and garth a little more . 
garth has somewhat of a " coming of age " and wayne gets to learn a little about himself ( with a little help from our old friend , jim morrison ) . 
a few old jokes from the previous movie are explored here again , but this time with a few twists to keep them fresh , and luckily , few , if any of them are overused . 
overall , the movie has plenty of continuity flaws ( especially in the fight scent between garth and cassandra's dad ) , but these are easily overlooked as this is , after wayne's world . 
the plot is flimsy but manageable . 
there are a few special effects , but they are fairly seamless , and fill nicely into the plot . 
the acting is good , for this sort of movie , but there are some very bright spots . 
in the big picture , this movie is just plain fun . 
there is lots of intelligent humor that makes this film special . 
during the whole one hour and 40 minutes , i didn't even think about looking at my watch a single time . 
silly , but riotous at times , this is an excellent movie even better than the original . 
john carpenter directed this stylish and gory vampire flick to which has it's good side and it's bad . 
it's held up by some good performances and dazzling special effects leading up to an ending that's pretty satisfying . 
james woods gives an outstanding performance that almost covers up the movie . 
the good side : some neat scenes of vampires and violence . 
the bad : no scares . 
yes that's right , even though being directed by one of horror's most cherished directors , 'vampires' is the least bit scary , if not at all . 
james woods stars as jack a vampire hunter out to stop the plans of the 'master' vampire valek played by thomas ian griffith whom wants vampires to walk in the daylight . 
daniel baldwin plays his sidekick montoya , a wise-cracking guy who really isn't that funny . 
in the opening scene jack along with montoya and the team of vampire hunters , find an abandoned house to which vampire occupy . 
of course we all know sunshine kills vampires , and that is just how they kill these vampires : hooking them to ropes and dragging them outside letting them burn to death . 
after throwing a party for what happened , the vampires that did not die come back to trash it . 
they kill almost all of jack's team , leaving only a few alive . 
sheryl lee plays a prostitute katrina who was bitten by valek , but not yet turned into a vampire . 
she is rescued by jack and ? flees with them on their search for valek . 
they have to fight they're way against vampires , leading up to a finale that is well-done with great special effects . 
'vampires' definately could have been done better . 
the make-up , special effects and story are first rate , but there is no scares or terror that the film could have had . 
it to me had more humor than horror , almost being compared to 'fright night' with the mix of violence and comedy . 
john carpenter does a great job of directing this film . 
he eases through some tough times and saves the flaws , which are noticeable but forgettable . 
the script is clever and funny , with many lines that make us laugh out loud . 
i much enjoyed 'vampires' with a few exceptions . 
it's one of those films you see but don't take to heart . 
you enjoy the time you spent and go on . 
the recently released 'psycho' is the same way , it's not as good as you'd hope but it is fun and entertaining . 
'vampires' is a good horror flick with no scares but plenty of other content to please the viewer . 
in the wake of the smashing success of " rumble in the bronx , " it's looking more and more likely that more jackie chan films will see american release . 
rumor has it that one of these films will be drunken master ii . 
the version i have is a copy from the laserdisc ; it's widescreen and bilingually-subtitled , as are most hong kong films these days . 
availability over here in the united states is very limited ; these films must either be purchased via pirates or sought out from asian distributors such as tai seng . 
the subtitling on the copy i have is slightly hard to read ; the letters are white and a bit small . 
although the american release will almost certainly be dubbed , this review is of the subtitled version , so please keep that in mind if you're reading this review to help you decide whether to go out and see it . 
to be fair , i must admit that i've never been very fond of " period-piece " martial arts movies--the ones set in some nebulous china of the distant or not so distant past . 
perhaps it's because most of those i've seen were filmed on inferior stock , with either butchered dubbing or all-but-illegible subtitling , or perhaps it's because their plots all tend to be very similar to each other and , in many cases , all but nonexistant . 
in fact , many of them get so wrapped up in their subplots that they seem to forget their main plot entirely until only a few minutes before the end . 
or , for that matter , it might be because the jackie chan films with more modern settings ( armour of god , rumble in the bronx , etc . ) tend to have more spectacular stunts , often involving large motor vehicles and large explosions , whereas period pieces simply have the martial arts . 
having said that , i must now turn right around and say that drunken master ii is a remarkable exception to all or most of the above , is one of the better martial arts films i've seen , and i quite enjoyed it . 
surprised ? 
well , so was i . 
drunken master ii is about a young man named wong fei-hong ( played by jackie chan ) who is a master of the drunken boxing style of kung fu . 
where he learned this style is uncertain , as his father , wong kei-ying ( ti lung ) is steadfast in his opposition to fei-hong's practicing it rather than some more normal style of kung fu . 
apparently , fei-hong is some sort of figure from chinese folklore , rather like paul bunyan is for americans , but i've heard very little about this , and could quite well be wrong , so i'll leave analysis of that to the people who know it better . 
one of my friends points out that the character of wong fei-hong is also featured in the " once upon a time in china " movies , but i have not yet seen those . 
the plot of drunken master ii is somewhat hazy , as are the plots to many such films , but if you're watching a jackie chan film , odds are you aren't expecting something on the order of " war and peace " . 
the story seems to revolve around those evil foreigners who are spiriting away ancient chinese relics ( and hence , china's cultural heritage ) while overworking , underpaying , and beating up chinese workers in a nearby steel mill . 
however , this plot merely serves as a framework for the other main story of the film--fei-hong's perpetual struggle to win his girlfriend , supplicate his father , keep his ( pregnant ) mother ( played by anita mui ) from fighting , and keep from getting beaten up by evil foreigner thugs . 
the macguffin that drives the plot ( s ) is a precious antique jade imperial seal which is being taken away by the evil foreigners . 
in the beginning , fei-hong accidentally steals it while trying to recover an identically-wrapped box containing the medicinal ginseng his father was bringing back for a customer . 
in the process , he clashes with another thief , who is himself trying for the seal but ends up instead with the ginseng . 
after fei-hong narrowly avoids getting caught with the seal by the evil foreigners' lackies , thanks to some timely intervention by a general's son ( a cameo appearance by andy lau , who would later take on the starring role in drunken master iii ! ) , comedic chaos ensues back at the wong household when fei-hong and his mother attempt to come up with a replacement for the missing ginseng . 
and so it goes . 
and the plot thickens later on , such as when fei-hong's girlfriend maneuvers him into a kung fu match with a rival , or when fei-hong and the thief , now revealed to be a loyalist manchu officer trying to recover the seal and stop the evil foreigners , are attacked en masse ( another grand kung-fu movie tradition ) , but i think i've already spent more time on the plot than it really deserves . 
let's move on to the real draw of jackie chan movies . . . the 
action . 
there's plenty of martial arts action to be found in this movie . . . of 
course , in a kung fu film , that's to be expected . 
however , this isn't just another kung fu movie ; this one has jackie chan doing the fight and stunt choreography , and jackie chan is a genius . 
the primary martial arts " style " featured in the film is drunken boxing , a form of kung fu which attempts to draw the adversary off his guard by making it seem like the fellow using it is drunk . 
further , for the purposes of this film at least , drunken boxers fight better when they actually _are_ intoxicated . . . but 
there's a fine line between just drunk enough and drunk into a stupor . 
under normal circumstances , the idea of someone staggering around looking sloshed but managing to fight effectively and even incredibly might seem rather stupid , but jackie pulls it off with flair . 
the kung fu sequences are so intricate in their staging and execution that it is pointless to try to describe it on paper , so i'll just say that the fights--especially the big climactic fight at the end--in themselves make the movie worth watching . 
another thing drunken master ii has going for it is the stunt work . 
even without motor vehicles ( well , not counting a train ) , there are some remarkable stunts in this film . 
among other things , jackie dives off a balcony into a table and crawls across hot coals ( not once , but at _least_ twice , if you count the outtake shown during the credits ) . 
 ( quicktime movies of these stunts can be found through the www movie database . ) 
unlike in american films , these stunts are _not_ faked . 
drunken master ii stars several veteran actors of the hong kong movie scene , including jackie , ti lung ( " a better tomorrow " 1 & 2 ) , and anita mui ( the " heroic trio " series , " rumble in the bronx " ) . 
the performances are first-rate , especially when it comes to the comedy parts of the film . 
the scene where fei-hong and his mother conspire literally behind fei-hong's father's back to cover up for the missing ginseng root is hilarious , as is the scene where fei-hong's mother , having just revealed that she is pregnant , is threatening to hurt herself ( in order to draw her husband's anger away from fei-hong ) . 
jackie has developed his knack for physical comedy into a sort of mastery over the years , and he's in fine form all through drunken master ii . 
as far as cinematography is concerned , it certainly works for this film . 
it's nothing spectacular , but is at least a dozen times better than all those old kung fu movies of the 70s . 
the picture is crisp and clear . 
one thing i find particularly worthy of mention is that , at least in the copy i have , the screen was wider than any film i've ever seen on videotape before--almost a whole 1/3 of the screen was blocked out above and below . 
 ( watch this on a bigscreen tv or movie theater if you can . ) 
it will be an utter shame if this film is eventually pan-and-scanned for american video release . 
drunken master ii shows the full potential of " period piece " kung fu movies , and it's good enough to overcome even my usual distaste for such movies . 
the plot does meander a bit , but that's to be expected in this type of film . 
if you like this kind of movie , you'll love this movie , and if not , well , give it a chance anyway . 
if nothing else , the martial arts and stunt sequences are by themselves worth the price of admission or rental . 
at first glance , three kings looks to be just another war movie , the 90s version of all those favourite war movies with names i cannot remember . 
the 90s version , it definitely is , just another war movie ? 
not in your dreams ! 
imagine pulp fiction approach to saving private ryan , thats three kings for you . 
believe it or not , it bears the cool of the former and the stark humane meaning of the latter . 
the story brings us to the twilight of the gulf war , with the allied troops victorious . 
majpr archie gates ( clooney ) leads an enterprising bunch of grunts to a rather unorthodox post-war looting spree ; the millions in gold bars secretly stowed away by saddam in a desolate village in the desert . 
as the rest of the troops are celebrating their victory and getting ready to be shipped home , this `wild bunch goes awol on an armed hum-vee ( the vehicle of choice of the us army ) . 
they soon find out that they have much resistance , as they get tangled with the local rebellion against saddams forces . 
frequently switching their modes between looters and robin hoods merry men , they become consciously attacked by their own morals . 
as the film begins to roll , it seemed to have a rather `light mood to it . 
`special effects such as when gates describes to his men how a bullet can kill simply paves the way for a light-hearted funny action movie . 
three kings is much smarter than that . 
as the conflict becomes more and more complex , the audience will be trapped in a limbo , trying to stay focussed on that light-mood/serious-mood that the film seem to portray . 
i personally found this analogous to the same feelings of the main characters involved in the film ; trapped between their initial plan paved by greed and their own sense of humanity . 
this simply made the entire experience of watching three kings truly brilliant . 
action sequences are not shot as your old-fashioned war films nor anything like steven spielbergs in-your-face war violence . 
they are carefully built to generate tension with just the right tight close-ups and pauses , right before the action starts . 
not john woo for sure but more of sergio leones spaghetti western style ( tons of them starring clint eastwood ) . 
great performances by clooney and wahlberg but the brilliance have to lie in the conception of this film ; the screenwriter and the director . 
three kings ranks among the best films of the year , well , for me at least . 
highly recommended . 
mickey mouse had better watch his back -- there's a new critter in town , and he's the nameless animal attraction of " mouse hunt , " dreamworks skg's clever first foray into family fare . 
although it runs out of steam towards its end , this live-action comedy still boasts enough energized slapstick and inventive set pieces to best disney's entire 1997 non-animated , kiddie-oriented catalog . . . 
but consider that list includes dismal tripe like " air bud , " " flubber " and " that darn cat , " and it's really not such a difficult feat to pull off . 
still , throw the two rodents in a boxing arena , and i'll be hoping that the mouse from " mouse hunt " knocks some sense back into mickey . 
nathan lane ( robin williams' significant other from " the birdcage " ) and lee evans ( last seen as a nervous bellhop in " the fifth element " ) play ernie and lars smuntz , befuddled brothers who have just inherited two unwanted assets from their late father ( william hickey , in his last role ) -- a dilapidated old string factory and a dilapidated old mansion . 
although lars made a deathbed promise to upkeep the former , he and ernie decide to sell the latter for big bucks after learning it was designed by a famed architect . 
but there's a lone obstacle in their way -- a single mouse lives within the walls of the house , and he's not about to give up his place of residence without a fight . 
movies aimed at young audiences are rarely this visually exquisite . 
the effects blending the talents of 60-some live mice , one animatronic mouse and one computer-generated mouse are pretty seamless . 
the splendid production design seems to be straight out of tim burton's mind ; the smuntz's architecturally-unsound mansion is like something straight out of " the nightmare before christmas , " and the vortex of bizarre machinery in their factory resembles some of vincent price's warped contraptions from " edward scissorhands . " 
 " mouse hunt " is a pretty dark movie -- even some of the humor can be grim -- but it's hardly ever mean-spirited . 
the star of the show is neither the top-billed lane nor the titular mouse . 
it's lanky british comedian evans , whose hysterical bodily antics suggest a cleaned-up jim carrey without the obnoxious overkill ( note a toned-down but nonetheless outrageous impromptu striptease ) ; evans' banter with the ever-affable lane is funny stuff , too , and holds its own against the movie's more flashy physical shtick . 
vicki lewis ( beth from " newsradio " ) is solid in a supporting role as lars' money-grubbing wife . 
and in a nifty bit of novelty casting , christopher walken is a macabre delight as a spooky exterminator who takes his job a little too seriously , popping a dropping into his mouth and noting to his tape recorder that the mouse has a " calcium deficiency . " 
blech . 
a basically one-joke idea -- a mouse outsmarts a couple of bumbling humans -- is given a rather engaging execution . 
their sparring is imaginatively realized ( i don't think i'll ever forget the sight of that tiny little mouse making his getaway on a rolling wheel of gouda ) , and although you really never fully root for either side , that's okay -- a warm-and-fuzzy union between the two parties is practically promised from the first frame they share . 
 " mouse hunt " may take a while to get going ( the rather lengthy set-up could test the patience of some of the younger children , although i rather liked it , much in part to lane and evans ) , and the climactic sequence is allowed to play out for a bit too long , but this appears to be one family movie that most members of the family will be able to find agreeable , not unlike the original " home alone . " 
a miracle of filmmaking , " some like it hot " is a brilliant film , and maybe the foremost example of slapstick comedy brought to screen with clever sight gags and plot twists . 
it is the pinnacle of writer-director billy wilder's career , a stunning feat considering the vast catalogue of films he had helped make . 
jerry ( lemmon ) and joe ( curtis ) are two stage musicians who go from gig to gig , trying to earn enough money to feed themselves . 
one night , as they're playing at a banned prohibition speakeasy , the place is raided . 
as it turns out , the owner , spats columbo ( george raft ) was ratted out by toothpick charlie ( george e . stone ) . 
several weeks later , on valentine's day , jerry and joe go to a garage to pick up a car and end up witnessing a gangland murder of charlie by columbo in a parking garage . 
eager to escape , the duo are forced to take a job in florida with all expenses paid . 
the only catch . . its a girls band . 
so josephine ( curtis ) and daphne ( lemmon ) , make their way onto the train and go to florida . 
on the way there , they meet sugar kane ( monroe ) , a bombshell singer who is looking for love . 
jerry and joe immediately fall for the singer , but there's two problems : 1 ) they're in drag , and 2 ) millionaire osgood fielding ( joe e . brown ) falls madly in love with daphne . 
what follows in pure hysteria , still complicated further by the arrival of spats columbo to florida for the " italian opera lovers festival " . 
tony curtis is hysterical as joe/josephine , especially in his preposterous attempts to woo sugar . 
marilyn monroe , in a wonderfully comic performance , is sugar , providing incredible timing and sex appeal , along with true sincerity . 
the scenes , however , are all stolen by either brown or lemmon . 
lemmon is hysterical as daphne . 
cast as the less rational one , lemmon's performance is ridiculously crazy , it is disorder in the style all billy wilder's . 
brown is particularly hilarious as osgood , as we are treated to the finest kind of comedic irony . 
he manages to use lemmon's ingenious performance as a springboard for an even loonier performance as a completely eccentric millionaire . 
every set-piece is flawless , as wilder brilliantly changes settings constantly , and uses every comic trick in the book to make his picture . 
wilder's script is stunning , as he carefully combines gangsters , cross-dressing , romance , sex , music , gender roles , and social taboos in a riotous blend of wit and oddball craziness . 
wilder manages to create scenes of utter hysteria , so pitch-perfect that the audience is dying of laughter with the last comic piece , the final line of this absolutely incredible film . 
wilder's is dead wrong when he says nobody's perfect : billy wilder is , especially when he makes something this disastrously funny . 
nobody's perfect but billy wilder . 
a welcome cinematic trend over the past couple of years has been to make the works of shakespeare more accessible to the younger audiences who are the vast majority of moviegoers by contemporizing the bard and altering the settings to familiar surroundings . 
a prime example of this is 1999's 10 things i hate about you , which was basically the taming of the shrew in a high school . 
less successful was last year's adaptation of hamlet with ethan hawke as the heir apparent of the denmark corp . here the setting was the corporate world of new york . 
now comes o , a faithful retelling of one of the most tragic of shakespeare's tragedies . 
like 10 things i hate about you , the stage is a high school - a private prep school where odin james ( mekhi phifer ) is the on-court general , the basketball team's standout player . 
julia stiles , featured in 10 things i hate about you as well as performing ophelia in hawke's hamlet , plays desi brable , odin's girlfriend , whose father also happens to be dean of the institution . 
josh hartnett ( pearl harbor ) is on hand for the villainy , playing the scheming hugo , who sets the tragic wheels in motion . 
o was actually filmed a couple of years ago , but was shelved because of the columbine high school tragedy . 
the movie , directed by tim blake nelson - best known for his co-starring role in o brother , where art thou ? 
- and written by brad kaaya , is very grim . 
an air of tragedy weighs it down from the opening scene to the closing credits . 
and that is how it should be . 
of all of shakespeare's tragedies , othello is the most harrowing , not because of any body count , but because of the psychological havoc wreaked by iago , whose motivation in the sheer pleasure of his treachery . 
kaaya's profane-filled script - after all , these are high school kids - does offer hugo a subtle motive of sorts . 
the young man considers himself the basketball team's prime utility man who does a little bit of everything - pass , shoot , rebound - but is constantly in the shadow of odin . 
plus his father , the team's coach - played with a ferocious intensity by martin sheen - showers more love and concern on his star player than on his own flesh and blood . 
the script follows the familiar lines of the classic . 
hugo begins dropping hints to odin concerning desi's fidelity , eroding the star's confidence in those he considers closest to him , affecting both his relationships and his game . 
it all ends in blood , of course , which is why the movie was originally shelved . 
the performances in o vary . 
phifer is at first cocky and self-assured , emotions he handles with ease . 
he also does quite well displaying odin's darker side ; his defensive sensitivity about being the only black at the institution , his growing distrust of those he loved , his rage and the erosion of his belief system . 
hartnett is appropriately cool and machiavellian as he weaves his deadly web of lies and deceit , turning friend against friend , and lover against lover . 
stiles seems a bit stilted , but occasionally also rises to the occasion , moving from adoration to confusion to fear of her young knight . 
the film does contain a few missteps : a subplot involving hugo's theft of the school mascot is left hanging . 
also desi's actions concerning michael ( andrew keegan ) , odin's former teammate and best friend who was kicked off the team because of one of hugo's machinations , is puzzling . 
why she would continually be seen with michael - however innocent the circumstances - when she knows her man suspects the two of cheating behind his back . 
it is irrational . 
but these are minor carpings . 
overall , o is a stylish and faithful adaptation . 
if nothing else , it may encourage some people to read the original text , and that will counterbalance the severity of this feature . 
there is a scene early in soul food , george tillman's comedy-drama about a large african-american family and the ordeals they go through during a crisis , that caught me completely off guard . 
during a wedding , the groom is flirting with some tramp , and in an attempt to to prevent a scene , his mother in law , played by irma p . hall , comes to the rescue . 
the way in which she does this makes me think irma p . hall is one of the greatest actresses around right now . 
however , this is just one magical moment in a movie filled with them . 
vanessa williams , vivica fox , and nia long star as three sisters who have each gone their own way in life . 
williams is teri , a successful lawyer , who is frustrated by her husband miles attempts at a music career . 
fox is maxine , the strongest of the sisters , which can be confirmed by the stability of her marriage and the wisdom of her son ahmad , who narrates the film . 
long is bird , a hairdresser who is the last of the three to get married . 
her husband lem is an intense passionate individual whose temper gets the best of him sometime but never stops loving . 
at the center of everything is irma p . hall , as big mama jo . 
every sunday , the family gathers together for dinner at mama jo's house . 
there is lots of conversation , lots of laughs , and the occasional controversy . 
mama jo presides over the family like all mothers should . 
she is stern and disciplined , but also caring and forgiving . 
everything is going fine , until a tragedy befalls mama jo . 
all of a sudden , a chain reaction of events begin to destroy the family . 
it gets so bad , sunday dinner is even cancelled . 
without mama jo's guidance , there is noone to keep the family together , which frustrates ahmad . 
miles and maxine's marriage begins to fall apart , as he focuses on his music and flirts with the troublesome faith . 
lem's temper gets the best of him when his convict past starts to catch up to him . 
and teri tries to prevent maxine's efforts to sell mama jo's house . 
the third act of the film deals with ahmad's attempts to patch things up . 
he decides to take over where mama jo left off , and tries to get the family back together for one more sunday dinner . 
the acting by everyone in the ensemble is outstanding , with special notices to irma p . hall and brandon hammond . 
hall gives a performance that deserves to be recognized by the academy . 
her mama jo is one of the most memorable characters i have ever encountered in a movie . 
brandon hammond is an actor with a bright future . 
he is wise enough not to play cutesy and shows an admirable range and depth , and speaks the final lines of the movie on the perfect note . 
tillman obviously based this movie on his own memories of growing up . 
every scene in the movie is purposeful and convincing ( except maybe an odd flashback sequence ) . 
the dialogue is beleiveable and funny . 
and then there's the food . 
tillman gives us several close ups of the soul food , and it indeed looks very tasty . 
i can see why sunday dinners became such a tradition for this family . 
soul food is one of the most purely entertaining movies of the year . 
director david fincher has such an eye for detail which is very rare in hollywood these days ( terry gilliam comes to mind as another one ) . 
film is one of the best art forms because not only can you tell a story , but you can use the camera to capture the smallest detail and have it mean something . 
but most directors seem to go for action with the slightest ounce of a story . 
so whenever a director uses the camera to its fullest potential , the film almost automatically deserves a good review . 
and when they add a fascinating story to it , you have nearly perfect entertainment . 
fincher's the game is no exception to this . 
the game is one of the most interesting and complex films to come out of hollywood in a long time . 
fincher hasn't made a film since " seven , " his box office and critical hit which defied expectations and became one of the best movies ever . 
so it is about time he made another film . 
and what a ride it is . 
the game isn't quite as powerful as " seven , " but in some ways it is better . 
overall , the game could have used a little more clarity , or a little more uncertainty . 
it walks a line of insanity and reality , but it never goes either way until the very end . 
the outcome is satisfying enough for the preceding events , and it makes a lot of sense once everything is set straight . 
unfortunately , unlike " the usual suspects , " we are never given enough information to figure out for ourselves what is happening , whether it be true or false . 
however , this also gives the film a frightening aspect which the game uses to the fullest extent . 
the game is told completely from its main character's point of view . 
nicholas van orton ( michael douglas ) is a high-strung and isolated businessman . 
he lives alone in his giant mansion , divorced from his wife elizabeth , and is celebrating his 48th birthday ; the same age at which his father committed suicide at , in the same mansion . 
for his 48th birthday , conrad ( sean penn ) , the rebel of the family , gives nicholas a gift certificate to crs : consumer recreation services . 
 " it will make your life fun again , " his brother promises . 
as skeptical as nicholas is , he is somewhat intrigued , and annoyed by the lack of information--something this businessman hates . 
seeing a billboard in an office , he decides to visit the mysterious company . 
jim feingold ( james rebhorn ) greets nicholas and guides him through the sign-up process , which consists of psych-tests , physicals , emotional responses , and other mind games . 
 " each game is suited to each person's emotional and psychological needs , " explains feingold . 
one day , nicholas gets a call from crs and they explain that he failed the tests . 
even more intrigued and now somewhat angered at the time he spent signing up , he starts asking around to see what people can tell him about the company . 
what he doesn't realize is that the game has already begun . 
the phone call is just the first of many strange events to be thrown nicholas' way . 
how he finds out that he is involved has to be witnessed because it is amusing and fun and visually impressive . 
the detail involved in fincher's shots is incredible and almost requires a second viewing just to appreciate the effort that went into them . 
with " seven , " fincher had almost every single shot mean something . 
he also has the unique ability to make you look at exactly what he wants you to . 
compared to " seven , " though , the game is light and comical . 
because of this film's sense of humor and self-awareness , nothing can be taken quite seriously . 
so don't try to make much sense of what goes on in the game , because it doesn't want you to . 
what does make sense is the final revelation--when everything becomes apparent and clear . 
if taken as it is , the game's ending makes complete sense . 
but if you try and critique every minute detail , then you get yourself into plot holes and incredibility . 
perhaps that is the reason i docked the film . 
while trying to remain realistic and plausible , the plot is too unbelievable to create any real tension on screen . 
we don't really care if douglas' character lives or not because it isn't believable . 
the ending requires you to have believed anything that has happened previously , but if you suspend disbelief and take the film as it is , you can accept the game as an emotionally and psycholically disturbing thriller . 
michael douglas gives a terrific performance as nicholas . 
douglas has played lonely businessmen before , but here he adds another level to his performance . 
his character , who is normally level-headed and relies on facts , is forced to trust nobody . 
can he believe the waitress he bumped into ? 
what about his brother who got him involved in the game in the first place ? 
douglas portrays this aspect of his character extremely well , and gives one of his best performances ( even better than his " falling down " persona ) . 
the supporting cast is essential in this film , and casting was critical . 
sean penn is always good , and he gives yet another credible performance as douglas' brother . 
deborah kara unger ( from " crash " ) is the waitress he bumps into , and her performance is extremely good . 
in fact , she almost steals the film from douglas . 
james rebhorn portrays his character very well , and adds some confusion and desparation to douglas' predicament . 
another good performance comes from armin mueller-stahl ( from " shine " ) as the book editor . 
but considering that douglas is in every single scene of the game , he not only commands this cast , but makes this distant and lonely character come to colorful life . 
the game is rated r for language , violence , some gore , and some nudity and drugs . 
what is essential for this film to work is the writing . 
john brancato and michael ferris have woven a confusing and compelling screenplay with witty dialogue , and some very funny moments . 
this screenplay will probably get an oscar nomination for best original screenplay because it does almost exactly the same thing the usual suspects' did . 
however , the visuals of the game are enough to make the viewer enjoy the vexing plot . 
and if you can get yourself to believe everything occuring on the screen , you will be thoroughly entertained by one of this year's best films . 
originally launched in 1978 , this popular film was re-introduced in 1998 to a whole new generation of moviegoers . 
based on the mighty successful musical from broadway , grease was followed in 1980 with the less stellar grease 2 ( 6 . 5/10 ) , 
starring a young michelle pheiffer in one of her first feature film roles . 
plot : high-school musical set in the 1950's showcasing the relationship between the cool danny zuko of the t-birds ( travolta ) and the innocent and pure sandy olsen ( newton-john ) from australia . 
the film follows the couple and their vivacious friends during their last year at rydell high through song , dance and humour . 
critique : fun-loving , energetic and innocent look back at times much simpler . 
this movie effectively juggles a thin romantic story line and the overall experience of the 1950's , with a superb soundtrack and some great dance numbers . 
admittedly , i am somewhat biased in this opinion , since this film blasts me into my past as a rebellious youth ( grease was one of schmoe's first big-screen experiences , and every other scene sends me reeling into the times of my elaborate grease bubble-gum card collection ) , and the lesser responsibilities that i possessed at that time . 
but apart from the nostalgic vibe , i was still extremely impressed by this film , as it continued to amuse me , despite my previous dozen or so viewings . 
this film took john travolta from a dim-witted " sweathog " on tv's welcome back kotter , and transformed him into a movie-star of spectacular proportions ( saturday night fever ( 7 . 5/10 ) in 1979 confirmed that sudden popularity ) . 
unfortunately for the rest of the cast , his popularity was not terribly contagious , despite their effective showings in this classic movie . 
on the down side , some of the absolute innocence in this film might bore or turn people off ( like when sandy sings about " drinking lemonade " and " staying out until 10 " with danny in " summer nights " ) , and the plot isn't exactly the most elaborate story-line ever created , but despite these small reservations , this movie carries enough great music and high energy to keep anyone amused through its rapid 110 minute running time ( and believe me . . . i 
am not a fan of the musicals ! ! ) . 
make sure to look for a young lorenzo lamas in the static role of the brainless football player , as well as the national bandstand dance contest as one of the film's absolute highlights . 
and don't forget to buy the popular soundtrack afterwards , so that you could listen to its peppy tunes whenever you're feeling a little blue . 
little known facts : henry winkler , of tv's happy days' fonzie fame , turned down the part of danny zuko because he did not want to be typecast for the rest of his career . 
both travolta and conaway were smitten by newton-john during the filming of this picture . 
conaway eventually bowed out of the woo-fest , and married newton-john's sister a year later ( divorced after five years ) . 
set in the late 80's at the height of yuppie excess and based on the book by bret easton ellis ( who explored the same themes in another book which was also made into a movie , less than zero ) , american psycho puts a new spin on the yuppie " genre " that ellis helped to create . 
christian bale is perfectly cast as patrick bateman , a high powered yuppie who hides a terrible secret from his fianc ? e and his colleagues . 
it seems that bateman is a serial killer and , unfortunately for his contemporaries , his tenuous grasp on reality is starting to slip . 
as he tries to balance his meticulous daily routines with slaughtering co-workers and prostitutes and hiding their bodies , his mental fabric slowly begins to unravel . 
i was first introduced to the novel when i was still in high school . 
i read an associated press article in our local sunday newspaper detailing the problems ellis was having getting his novel published due to the controversial violence in it . 
as usual when anything is controversial i try to seek it out , but i soon forgot about the novel and didn't end up thinking about it again until i stumbled across it a couple of years later at a bookstore . 
i picked it up and read it , but was ultimately disappointed because it left more questions than answers . 
the movie has a similar effect , but at least it's less cryptic than ellis' novel . 
for once , a film has actually turned out to be better than the novel it was based on . 
both the book and the film open with bateman describing his fastidious morning preparations ( down to exactly what facial scrubs and exfoliating creams he uses ) but the novel seems to concentrate more on these excesses throughout . 
the movie continues to touch upon these things but makes more of a point to immerse us in bateman's impending madness than to detail things as painstakingly as the novel does . 
as a result , the film is immensely more entertaining . 
lions gate seems to be the studio champion of controversial films ( having picked up kevin smith's catholic-rattling dogma ) and here with american psycho there is no difference . 
screenwriters mary harron and guinevere turner had the unenviable task of trying to take a novel about yuppies filled with graphic violence and sex and make a marketable film out of it . 
some cuts had to be made to the finished film to keep from getting an nc-17 , mainly involving a sex scene comprising bateman and two women , and initial reports said the film was unwatchable . 
thankfully , it is watchable and harron and turner have made one of the most scathingly satirical films this side of south park : bigger , longer & uncut . 
side note #1 : co-writer guinevere turner also makes an appearance in the film as an ill-fated acquaintance of bateman's who , after bateman suggests that she start making out with a female prostitute , proclaims that she's not a lesbian nor has any interest in it . 
the ironic humor of the scene stems from the fact that turner ( the writer/director of the film go fish and who also assisted kevin smith with parts of his script for chasing amy ) is a lesbian . 
it's a subtle in-joke and it's one i found to be pretty humorous . 
despite having a rather high profile supporting cast of young up-and-comers ( including reese witherspoon ) , most of the roles are a waste and are the equivalent of extended billed cameos . 
the real draw here is christian bale and his over-the-top performance as patrick bateman . 
whenever i read a novel i always try to imagine what it would be like as a movie and who would be perfect to cast as the characters . 
i always had a hard time trying to decide who i would cast as bateman , but i never thought bale would deliver a performance as perfect as his ends up being . 
to say bale runs away with the character is a vast understatement and he proves that he's as adept at chewing scenery as al pacino or rod steiger . 
one sequence in particular , involving bateman describing his love for huey lewis and the news' song " hip to be square " right before burying an axe in a co-worker's head , features one of the most eccentric and kinetic performances i have ever seen on film . 
side note #2 : despite the fact that huey lewis' " hip to be square " and a pair of phil collins songs appear in the film , don't expect to see them on the soundtrack release . 
huey lewis expressly requested that his song , featured in a rather large set piece in the film ( much akin to the use of " stuck in the middle with you " in reservoir dogs ) , not be included on any soundtrack release . 
i'm assuming that collins requested the same . 
on a similar note , whitney houston's cover of " the greatest love of all " is also involved in a scene comparable to the other two and it is very obvious that it isn't the houston version at all but merely an instrumental version culled from an unknown source . 
apparently , houston wasn't as open about the use of her song as the others were . 
a bigger controversy than the violence and sex has been brewing since the film's release : that of whether or not patrick has actually committed the crimes we have viewed during the course of the film . 
don't look to the book for any answers because it will only serve to confuse you more . 
several web sites have been dedicated to the subject but i'm still undecided . 
there is evidence both for and against but the most scathing evidence against comes from a scene near the end of the film where bateman goes on a killing spree taking out cops , old ladies , and cleaning staff with equal gusto . 
the scene seemed very dream-like and as absurd as the action films it suddenly seems to be parodying ( as an example , bateman blows up a police car very cinematically after firing several shots from a handgun in the general direction of the car ) . 
i kept waiting for bateman to wake up and for the film to continue on from there , but bateman never does wake up and the whole sequence , though comic , throws the film off-balance ( which i suppose was the intention ) . 
other than the few flaws i have mentioned , american psycho is an incredibly entertaining film ( although you may not leave the movie fully understanding whether or not what has just transpired actually occurred in bateman's reality ) . 
i think this movie is destined for greatness as a cult film and deserves the spot it will take as such . 
it may not change anyone's life , but it will certainly have an effect . 
i know i will certainly hear " hip to be square " in a different context the next time i hear it . 
[r] 
ever wonder what happened to gabe kaplan ? 
you remember , he was the title character in that 70's sitcom , " welcome back kotter . " 
always trying to help out the sweathogs , frequently trying to dodge mr . woodman , ever wary of his wife's tuna casserole . 
 " so , " you ask , " where is he now ? " 
mr . kaplan actually spends much of his time these days playing professional high-stakes poker . 
that's right . 
i'm not sure if it's his main source of income , but from what i've heard , the guy occasionally comes away with $20 , 000 at a time . 
and there you were , thinking i was going to tell you he was doing off-broadway theater . 
you silly goose . 
well , gabe kaplan isn't in the movie rounders , nor is the film about the actor come gambler's life . 
but rounders is about poker , and gabe plays poker , and i thought that was kind of a neat connection . 
sorry about the segue , or lack thereof . 
matt damon plays mike mcdermott , a law student who also has a singular talent for the game of poker . 
he's been playing for a while , and more than being proficient , he has caught the bug . 
he goes to all the underground games in new york city , knows the regulars , and knows how to win . 
in the beginning of the film , he's built up a nice thirty grand nest egg , which he takes to the speakeasy-type gaming parlor where the big boys play . 
mike is there to make his bid into the upper echelon by staking it all against teddy kgb ( john malkovich ) , an oreo-munching cardshark with ties to the russian mafia . 
mike has the potential to take a large pot and go to vegas and buy into the world series of poker , but instead he loses it all in a single hand . 
months later , he's paying his way through law school by driving a delivery truck . 
when mike's best friend and poker buddy worm ( edward norton ) finishes his jail term for hustling some students , he wants to pick up right were they left off , working as a team to part others with their betting cash . 
although mike has stopped playing cards as a promise to his girlfriend and fellow law student , jo ( gretchen mol ) , worm connives mike into playing once more , and mike , bitten again by the bug , slides down that slippery slope , risking his relationship , education , and reputation as playing poker again becomes the focus of his life . 
to make a film about gambling , a filmmaker will usually have to play up the glamorous side to get the audience behind the characters . 
this is because few moviegoers will care a whole lot about some guy in a leisure suit or terry cloth shirt sitting at a folding card table with a stogie in his mouth . 
rounders , however , seems to go more for the latter than the former . 
the card clubs mike and worm frequent aren't very glamorous at all . 
there's a basement , a lodge with elk heads on the wall , a goulash joint - these are the kinds of locales in which director john dahl sets his shots . 
except for one brief instance when the two players visit atlantic city , the film is bereft of the flashing lights of the casinos or the pleasant color of the green felt table . 
the reason rounders still captures our attention is because it is less about the game of poker than it is about the personalities which enjoy and are slaves to it . 
we're given a nice set of interesting characters with clear motivations , and good actors to play them . 
matt damon is very natural as mike , who struggles between his desire to play the straight and narrow by finishing law school , and answering what may be his true calling , playing professional poker . 
ed norton's worm is truly a worm , always looking for the angle and playing everyone for what they're worth . 
john turturro , who amazes me with his acting range , tones it down in this film by playing joey knish , a virtual poker prodigy in his time who now plays the underground games to make rent and child support payments . 
he's both a friend and mentor to mike , and turturro's low-key performance is totally convincing , just as john malkovich's heavily-accented teddy kgb is imposing as an adversarial dragon mike must slay to prove himself . 
martin landau is also thrown into the mix as one of mike's law professors , abe petrovsky . 
while landau slips well into the role , his character , spitting out personal anecdotes about staying true to one's self , facilitates the channeling of the storyline toward a predictable ending . 
perhaps the weak link in the otherwise formidable line-up of acting talent , however , is gretchen mol who just didn't seem to have much presence on screen . 
she's a genuine peach to look at , kind of a cross between actress renee zellweger and singer jewel ( and i wouldn't be surprised if the three of them formed some kind of blond-haired triumvirate and attempted to take over the world ) , but her delivered lines seemed very flat , and i found myself looking for matt damon's reactions instead . 
a good thing about rounders is that it doesn't get bogged down in the character development and statement making so much that it can't find time for humor . 
the film is peppered nicely with scenes that both make you laugh and keep the pacing going , such as a sequence where mike and worm move rapidly around new york from one game to the next , in widely different locales . 
one game in a cigar club had me in stitches . 
 " i love the sweetness of this dark maduro wrapper , " says one of the players , clearly more interested in displaying his pretentiousness over the cigar in one hand than in the cards in his other . 
i was hoping mike and worm would really take these guys . 
with all the poker being played , rounders had the potential to be very confusing . 
you might think you know a lot about poker , but think again . 
luckily , we're given a narration by damon during the more intricate moments to explain what's going on . 
the narrations are more informative than intrusive , and apprise us of what the stakes are and why certain players want to do the things they do . 
it's nice that as the characters develop , so does our comprehension of their world . 
as a film about success and survival in the realm of underground poker , rounders delivers in spades . 
wait ! 
as a film about the culture of cards , rounders is an ace . 
hang on ! 
packed with great acting and great characters , rounders is a full house . 
okay , i guess that's enough . 
oh , by the way , if you ever want to get into a game with ol' gabe kaplan , be sure to bring a note from epstein's mother . 
did you ever wonder if dennis rodman was actually from this planet ? 
or if sylvester stallone was some kind of weird extra-terrestrial ? 
i used to think that about my 7th grade english teacher , ms . carey . 
but after seeing this movie , they may have confirmed my suspicions . 
as the story goes , at any time , there are over a thousand aliens living among us here on earth . 
the men in black ( mib ) are the watchdogs that oversee the cosmic citizens , guardians of our beloved planet from nasty-tempered aliens , and secret service to the stars . 
based in new york city ( where weird is the norm ) , the mib organization gives human form to our space-faring emigrants so that they may walk and live among us unnoticed . 
but to enforce the laws of earth , the mib carry weapons that are powerful enough to meet or exceed destruction quotas in one single blast . 
they carry other-worldly technology to erase people's short-term memory when common folk see the mib in action . 
and their best leads on cosmic things-gone-awry are the supermarket tabloids . 
little do we know that there are much stronger battles of good v . evil going on in the depths of space . 
one of the aliens-as-human on this planet is an important diplomat that is carrying something very precious . 
it holds the 'key' , literally , to universal peace . 
a giant cockroach-like alien soon arrives on the planet and steals this 'key' . 
in the wrong alien hands ( flippers ? 
mandibles ? 
tentacles ? ) , it can be used as a weapon . 
therefore , it must be recovered and returned to it's rightful owners . 
otherwise , to ensure universal safety , earth will be destroyed , along with the 'key' . 
now , it's the mib who must prevent this catastrophe . 
the mib agents on the case are " k " , played by tommy lee jones . 
he is crustier than burnt toast and even more serious than al gore . 
the stars in the sky no longer spark wonder in his eyes . 
he is accompanied by a flippant rookie , " j " , played by will smith . 
but , despite this shoot-em-up , protect-earth-from-destruction premise , this is nothing at all like a typical summer action movie . 
and , this isn't an independence day knockoff . 
rather , this is a stylishly offbeat sci-fi comedy that pokes fun at what the government always denies ? that there are real aliens that live here , and that the government does its darndest to cover them up . 
but to give it some sense of excitement and to keep it within the parameters of the summer movie recipe , there must be some kind of earth-hangs-in-the-balance scenario . 
yet , this movie is very appealing . 
the abundance of wierdness ( talking aliens , pee-wee atomizers , a mortician who 'lives' for her work , and lots of yucky bugs and slime-splattering galore ) , is played straight , like as if this were normal ( of course , we are in nyc ) . 
it gives it a deadpan feel , which makes it all the more funnier and odder . 
jones plays the venerable seen-it-all agent with seriousness and maturity . 
smith is likeable and makes a great comic partner to jones' straight man routine . 
they click like dorothy's ruby red shoes . 
the look and feel of the movie is made even better with direction from barry sonnenfeld ( the addam's family ) . 
this guy has a knack for 'gothic' comedy , and successfully transfers his macabre sense of humor onto the screen . 
and , an appropriate dose of special effects helps to bolster the oddness of their task without diverting attention from the human actors . 
the story moves well , and before you know it , the end credits are already rolling ! 
the result is 100 minutes worth of fun in the form of ewwwws and blechhhs , aaaahhhs and wows . 
let the men in black protect and color your world . 
i feel no hesitation in saying that " there's something about mary " is the best film that i will see all year . 
from the moment the credits started to roll at the end of the picture , there was no doubt in my mind that i had seen a masterpiece that will remain unsurpassed in the remaining months of 1998 . 
it is that good of a film . 
when gene siskel said this about " fargo " only a few months into '96 , i dismissed the notion as ridiculous . 
how could you possibly know that a film is so great that nothing you could possibly see in the future could beat it ? 
but after seeing the farrelly's hilarious and surprisingly heartfelt masterwork , i now know what siskel was talking about . 
once in a ( very great ) while , a film comes along that is so daring , so brilliant and simply so enjoyable that at the end , you just want to stand up and cheer . 
and you know , at that instant , that you have just experienced something very special . 
now for the shocker ; " mary " is the grossest and most disgusting film i have ever viewed ( " pink flamingos " obviously notwithstanding ) . 
the movie is so rude and , i guess , inappropriate in nature that i had a hard time sitting in a theater watching it with my parents ( luckily i had seen it before them , so i could warn the about what they were in for ) . 
forget " blazing saddles " , " animal house " and even the former king of gross-out comedy , " monty python's meaning of life " ; they were all only preludes to the farrelly's assault on the senses . 
in fact , this may even be the funniest film i've ever had the pleasure of seeing ( the only real contender is " monty python and the holy grail " ) , and most certainly the most hilarious to come out all decade . 
but as funny as it is , something also has to be said about the overall sweetness of " mary " ; it has a huge heart . 
you see , the farrelly's are truly gifted filmmakers . 
they don't just present you with a string of dick and fart jokes ( although there are plenty to go around ) . 
they also , very wisely , add an unbelievable amount of charisma to the main characters and actually have them develop as the story progresses . 
it's funny , though . 
if you just look at an outline of the story , it seems kind of contrived and predictable . 
but believe me , it is anything but . 
ben stiller plays ted , a very shy and clumsy teenage geek who lusts after the school babe , mary ( cameron diaz ) . 
after he sticks up for her retarded brother , warren ( w . 
early brown - the cameraman , believe it or not , from " scream " ) , his dreams come true when she invites him to the prom . 
in one of the film's funniest scenes , something goes wrong ( i won't ruin it for those who know nothing about the film ) and ted is unable to face mary ever again . 
jump to the present . 
after years of self-loathing , ted finally hires private detective pat healy ( a suitably slimy matt dillon ) to track her down so he can have one last chance at winning the woman he has loved since high school . 
healy finds that mary is still a full-blown hottie and decides to try and keep her for himself . 
admittingly , the basic story line leaves a little to be desired . 
after all , with a not-really-all-that-funny premise , how can you sustain laughter for nearly two hours ? 
somehow , the farrelly's pull it off . 
the performances here are also right on target . 
as ted , stiller adds just the right amount of clumsy charm to make his character not irritating , as he would normally be , but very lovable . 
and cameron diaz is perfect in her role for obvious reasons , but the actor who really grabs your attention is w . earl brown as mary's brother . 
no other actor has even come close to playing a mentally retarded man with as much natural ease as brown displays here . 
i know he won't be nominated , but this is the guy who should not be counted out when it comes time to hand out the oscar nods in february . 
as good as the actors are , though , it's the directors' movie all the way . 
i guarantee that on almost every other top ten list at the end of the year , you will see the number one space occupied by steven spielberg's wwii epic " saving private ryan " . 
and yes , that is a great film worthy of the recognition it has been getting . 
but which is harder ; making a great war film or having your audience laugh so hard that they can't breath for minutes at a time ? 
i'll let you decide that one for yourself , but this critic is sticking to his guns . 
there is just something about " mary " . 
 " i'd rather die today and go to heaven than live to be a hundred and go to hell , " earnestly proclaims the pentecostal preacher . 
with that line coming from a fundamentalist christian minister , hollywood has taught us how we should fill in the rest of the story . 
he will be turn out to be a scoundrel who has less actual belief in god than the average american , and all of his preaching will turn out to be a cynical ruse to extort money from his naive congregation . 
from elmer gantry on , we have learned what to expect when the movies go to church . 
well , think again , for the apostle , which robert duvall has wanted to make for over a decade , does not take the usual tack of smearing the minister , and by implication all , the rest of organized religion . 
instead it gives us a highly devout man , who certainly has his foibles , but with an absolute dedication to his ministry and his god . 
and arguably just as surprising , the good-spirited film is no comedy , even if it does have humorous moments . 
instead of levity the picture takes a touchingly serious approach as it introduces us to a world not normally seen in motion pictures . 
when in the privacy of his attic , robert duvall , as texas preacher euliss " sonny " dewey , argues sternly with his lord , the scene shares a kinship with emily watson's character crying out for her god in breaking the waves's most powerful scene . 
the body of the story starts with sonny's coming upon an horrific auto accident , which is another part of life generally ignored by modern screenwriters . 
with his well worn bible in hand , sonny leaps from his car so that he can go pray over and with the accident's dying victims . 
the scowling police officer orders him to go away , and , after he has tried to work his miracles , sonny leaves with a smile in the confidence that he has done the lord's work . 
robert duvall not only gives a moving and realistic performance surely destined to receive an academy award nomination but is also the film's director , writer , executive producer , and chief financier . 
rarely has a movie been such a labor of love . 
with a white suit , peach-colored shirt and tie , and dark sunglasses , sonny looks as much like a rock star as a preacher . 
duvall has every movement down pat . 
even when he is walking down the street , the ever strutting sonny cannot contain his energy . 
he dances and claps all the way . 
sonny's churches having more black members than white means that he shares his preaching duties with many deep-voiced black orators , but his rhetoric is always competitive . 
 " i may be on the devil's hit-list , but i'm on god's mailing list , " he shouts to the congregation in a revival tent . 
and they lap it up . 
people jump up , scream , " praise the lord ! " 
and mean it . 
the intensity of their shared religious experience is palpable . 
but sonny is no saint . 
it turns out that he has a wandering eye , which angers his wife jessie , played in a remarkably controlled performance by farrah fawcett . 
jessie gets her revenge by taking up with the church's youth minister and conniving to gain control over sonny's church , leaving him unemployed . 
sonny , letting his temper get the best of him , does something foolish , which causes him to have to leave town and two beloved kids forever . 
the bulk of the film occurs in a small , predominately black church in louisiana , which he builds up from a derelict building with no congregation into a remodeled church ( " one way road to heaven : holiness temple " ) with an enthusiastic flock . 
in this part he rebaptizes himself as the apostle e . f . the apostle is a hard worker willing to take on any odd job necessary to obtain the funds for his church . 
he asks his members to tithe , but he gives all of his money . 
and his good deeds extend to secret donations of food for the local poor folks . 
a man who can't stand to be still , he tells one of his friends , " i quit school because i didn't like recess . " 
in his new town he meets toosie ( miranda richardson ) , who , like him , has a family that she hasn't seen in a while . 
his romance with the separated woman , like the rest of the film , doesn't follow the standard patterns we have grown to expect from our movies . 
billy bob thornton shows up one day playing a local racist and general troublemaker . 
his confrontation with the apostle is yet another of show's many surprising scenes , again breaking many rules and conceptions about what approach deeply religious people might take . 
although it probably couldn't have ended any other way , the movie does wrap things up nicely . 
and don't miss the sweet epilogue during the film's closing credits . 
a tour de force acting performance by duvall and a surprising and unrelentingly dedicated script makes for an outstanding and moving film . 
the apostle runs a little too long at 2 : 12 . 
it is rated pg-13 for mild profanity and brief violence and would be fine for kids eleven and up . 
one of the best movies i've ever seen . 
i'd heard extremely good things about this movie , and though the previews didn't really intrigue that much , it was a movie i'd been anticipating for a few months now . 
for some reason i'm not sure of - this movie was not that big a sucess over in the u . s . it was a definite hit with the critics , but didn't exactly set any box office records . 
after viewing this incredibly well directed , written and acted movie , i can't help but wonder - why ? 
the strength of this film is it's gritty realism . 
the main characters are all human with individual flaws , no stereo-type hollywood heroes . 
you may not agree with many of their actions in the movie or their approach to life , but that is what makes it so real . 
i had expected this movie to be more of a drama than a thriller , but i was mistaken . 
even the interrogation scenes moved at such a pace so that it felt just as thrilling as any car chase . 
and the ending . . . . . . whoa . 
i've never seen a movie in my life where everyone in it acts brilliantly . 
the three male leads - guy pearce , kevin spacey and russell crowe are all just terrific . 
the 'best actor' oscar talk surrounding this film should have netted one of them a statue , but there is one problem there . 
how could they have chosen between these three actors ? 
there is no way i could look at this film and say one of them was better than the other two . 
it's impossible . 
kim bassinger's performance is also a revelation . 
i'd never been a big fan of hers before and always thought she was , well . . . what's the word - a twinky ? 
that impression has changed , as she complemented crowe and pearce perfectly . 
the depth to the story and characters is truly astounding . 
no cardboard characters here . 
the plot is full of twists and turns and some very clever sequences . 
pearce's interogation of three seperate suspects is nothing short of brilliant . 
i really can't fault this movie at all . 
i was so glad to see fellow australian's pearce and crowe star in such a breathtaking movie . 
i had been very familiar with russell crowe beforehand from his many australian films , but had not seen much of guy pearce . 
i intend to change this next time i visit the video store : ) 
this reviewer is ignorant of what hands were responsible for delivering the original version of the abyss in 1989 . 
whether it was the meddling of studio executives , or the work of writer/director james cameron himself , the original cut of this underwater sci-fi thriller was entertaining enough but also quite seriously flawed . 
the main problem was fairly simple : the film's climax was unworthy of its build-up . 
someone at 20th century fox - and no doubt cameron himself - must have agreed , because in 1993 came the theatrical release of the abyss : special edition . 
now available on video , it seems timely to re-evaluate what , in its newly revamped state , is now a near-masterpiece despite its borrowings from films like 2010 : odyssey two , alien and close encounters of third kind . 
the plot is thus . 
we meet the crew of an experimental underwater mobile oil rig designed by the hard-nosed lindsay ( mastrantonio ) and captained by her soon-to-be-divorced husband bud ( ed harris ) . 
the rig and its crew are diverted from their normal duties when the navy seeks their help in investigating the mysterious sinking of a u . s . nuclear submarine . 
requiring a dive part-way down a three mile deep trench , three navy divers arrive to command the operation , led by the edgy lieutenant coffey ( biehn ) . 
but a series of strange sightings soon convinces at least one member of the civilian crew that whoever or whatever they're dealing with , as she memorably puts it , " aren't speaking russian " . 
meanwhile on the surface a hurricane is brewing and , even worse , a series of incidents around cuba involving russians ships and an increasingly nervous u . s . navy sets off an international crisis of possible catastrophic proportions . 
this crisis is mirrored in the confines of the now isolated underwater rig , with the trigger-happy and increasingly paranoid lieutenant coffey at odds with the crew about how do deal with the mysterious goings-on around them . 
the human drama is often riveting , with the principal players performing with an intensity that recalls the fine ensemble acting in cameron's aliens . 
the stunts , hardware , special effects and underwater cinematography are all outstanding . 
and so they should be : cameron's technical credentials are well established . 
but what ultimately makes the film so gripping is three intersecting plot strands : 1 ) the tension between old sparring partners lindsay and ex-hubby bud ; 2 ) the war of wills between the civilian crew and the navy divers as a series of escalating crisis' befall them ; and 3 ) the slowly unfolding revelation of what lies at the bottom of the three mile deep abyss . 
the abyss : special edition is an improvement on the original film in two major respects . 
one is that it further fleshes out the relationship between bud and lindsay , a relationship at times touching , at others incredibly intense and volatile . 
the second improvement is the restoration of some absolutely crucial scenes towards the film's end , when the aliens demonstrate their control over water with a terrifying and extraordinary display of power to a world on the brink of nuclear war . 
with the inclusion of these startling scenes , the story's climax is now given real weight . 
why on earth were they left out of the original ? 
this reviewer finds it utterly incomprehensible . 
so then , we have 25 minutes of additional footage that's turned a decent underwater thriller into something quite magnificent . 
i say " quite " because some flaws do remain . 
the most grating is several moments of corny hollywood schmaltz - some new , some old - that may well have you reaching for the barf bag . 
nonetheless , the abyss : special edition now stands this somewhat maligned film among james cameron's greatest achievements , alongside aliens and terminator 2 . see it and be moved , gripped and spellbound . 
i have a soft spot in my heart for pure , amoral sleaze . 
i liked showgirls ( there , i said it ) . 
i typically enjoy myself when sitting through that eszterhaz , sex-filled cinematic tabloid-ish trash . 
wild things is the best sleazy film i've ever seen . 
it's filled with great performances , graphic sex , three-way sex , rape charges , double-crosses , plot twists , genitalia of all genders , graphic violence , death , witty humor , and , best of all , denise richards . 
criticizing this film for being disgusting , raucous , and just plain wrong is as fundamentally pointless as criticizing citizen kane for being disturbing , or titanic for being lofty and epic . 
wild things is a film that succeeds in its endeavors , but i don't just admire it for this--i admire it for being so entertaining and such a fun time at the movies . 
i must admit up-front , however , that i am directly in the center of the age group to which this film has been engineered to appeal . 
i imagine that this shows . 
it's hard to give a plot summary without giving away pieces that shouldn't be known . 
i thought i had the whole thing worked out from the trailer , but i was wrong ; there are a lot of turns here . 
i'll just say that the film takes place in blue bay , a rich little town in florida . 
in blue bay lives sam lombardo ( matt dillon ) , a teacher who is accused of rape by two of his students , kelly van ryan ( denise richards ) , and suzie toller ( neve campbell ) . 
kelly's mother , sandra ( theresa russell ) , immediately presses charges . 
all of this happens fairly early in the film . 
and right up until this point , i had the whole film predicted . 
i was wrong , though , and every time i was proven wrong , i was shocked . 
wild things isn't even remotely plausible , but it is so fun to see where the story takes us that the implausibility of every scene is meaningless , and often invited , just for kicks . 
i remember first seeing the preview for wild things before the replacement killers . 
i'd give the preview four stars . 
it made me want to see the movie so much that i've been waiting for it anxiously ever since . 
over the past few weeks though , i started to realize that there was no way the film could live up to the preview ( see independence day ) ; thankfully , i was proven wrong . 
the preview for this film is one that needs to be studied by marketing analysts of every distribution company : not only does it make us want to see the film , but it doesn't give away any of the secrets . 
but i'm not here to talk about the preview . 
i'm here to talk about denise richards . 
now , i found her mildly interesting in starship troopers , but in wild things she appeals to such a base instinct that every scene she's in demands attention in a way that almost no other performer can . 
of course , this might have something to do with her oceanic eyes . . . and 
flawless body . . . but 
i thought she did a great job acting , too ( stop laughing ) . 
no , richards is truly a find--she is talented , and always convincing in this film . 
this mixed in with her insane physical appeal makes her a vital asset to any film she may grace in the future . 
the other actors are good , too . 
dillon is as suave as ever ( it's nice to see him bouncing back from albino alligator and in & out ) . 
bacon does a good job acting all determined and stuff as a sex crimes officer . 
neve campbell gives the most layered performance of all of them , though i won't pretend that any of these characters are deep and complex . 
for a plot like this to work , all of these people have to be insane and basically contrived . 
that's okay , because director john mcnaughton knows that he's making a self-consciously wicked film . 
each scene--even the three-way sex scene--is observed with hilarity by mcnaughton , and the result is a sleaze-fest that's too smart to resist . 
there isn't an inconsistent moment in wild things : every bit of it is alluring garbage , so trashy it's funny , and so entertaining it's painful . 
i loved it . 
tarzan chad'z = good ) 1999 , g , 90 minutes [1 hour , 30 minutes] [animated - adventure/drama] starring the voices of : tony goldwyn ( tarzan ) , minnie driver ( jane porter ) , lance henriksen ( kerchak ) , brian blessed ( clayton ) ; written by tab murphy , bob tzudiker , noni white ; produced by bonnie arnold ; directed by chris buck , kevin lima ; based on the story `tarzan of the apes' and characters created by edgar rice burroughs . 
seen july 4 , 1999 at 7 : 15 p . m . at crossgates cinemas 18 ( guilderland , ny ) , theater #9 , by myself for free using my hoyts season pass . 
[theater rating : * * * 1/2 : very good sound , picture and seats] 
title : `tarzan' beautiful to look at , easy to follow . 
review : disney continues its trend of producing animated summer blockbuster movies meant mostly for children but with enough wit and charm for adults to be interested and at least entertained by the story . 
the basic premise is the same as every other `tarzan' story : a boy is raised in the african jungle by gorillas and becomes one himself never really understanding ( or even noticing ) that he's human and is a lot different from the animals he befriends . 
the first third of the film shows how tarzan comes to be adopted by kala ( voiced by glen close ) , a female gorilla who lost her own child in a classic case of darwanism . 
her mate , kerchak ( henriksen ) , is a mean , conservative leader of the pack of gorillas who make up tarzan's extended family . 
he refuses to acknowledge tarzan ( voiced by alex d . linz during the childhood scenes ) as a son and often has to hold himself back from killing tarzan after he continually does dangerous , wild things that are the result of his own childish instincts . 
i have a feeling children will quickly be able to identify with tarzan since all he really is is just a kid who wants to have fun and it's funny how the adults fail to comprehend this . 
later , as the story transitions from tarzan as a child to a full-grown man ( voiced by goldwyn ) , he is encounter by a party of three humans from england : jane porter ( driver ) , a beautiful woman who is something of a zoologist and an artist , her father prof . archimedes q . porter ( voiced by nigel hawthorne ) who is also a scientist ; and their slick and cunning , yet barbaric safari bodyguard clayton ( blessed ) . 
it's easy to tell where the story is going at all times but the screenplay doesn't seem like it was written hastily nor dumbed down for children's enjoyment . 
sure there's a lot of cliche stuff here , like clayton's smugness and diabolical manipulation of tarzan and jane ; the goofy supporting characters ( voiced by rosie o'donnell [in full brooklyn accent ! ] and wayne knight - `hello newman ! ' ) . 
there's also a lot of fun action such as tarzan's swinging through the jungle on vines and sliding down and around tree branches and trunks . 
it's just like skateboarding really fast and doing all sorts of tricks ( those mcdonald's commercials really prove this point ) . 
ultimately , you get exactly out of `tarzan' what you expect . . . 
and i mean that as a compliment , so have high expectations . 
pros : animation and sound are a feast for the senses , story is lighthearted , breezy and not dumbed-down , no stupid sing-along songs to get stuck in your head . 
cons : surprisingly violent , should have been rated pg . 
young children may not understand some of the more adult themes ( parents , be ready to have some heavy questions thrown your way ) . 
running time is a bit short . 
would you recommend this to friends ? 
not to my friends , but to the movie-going public i would . 
score : or with no 0 rating ) . 
i've always been told that there are two things in life that are unavoidable - death and taxes . 
oddly , i've never given much thought to either of the two . 
maybe if i did , at least i'd stop getting collection notices from uncle sam . 
yes , let me make a resolution to devote myself to better record keeping , hold on to all my receipts , and to do what it takes to have the satisfaction that my returns are mistake-free and will keep me from incurring penalties . 
it seems that the issue of death may not be so different , at least envisioned here in this film . 
as this tender love story goes , if you do good things and have a clear conscience when you die , you ascend to a place of great peace and beauty . 
the dreams , wishes , and fantasies that you had when you were alive come true . 
for those who die with a burdened soul , however , they wind up in that other place . 
chris and annie ( a winsome robin williams and a radiant annabella sciorra ) seem like the perfect couple that deserve all that heaven has to offer . 
their love for each other is strong and their bond is undeniable . 
but tragic events eventually tear apart the fabric of annie's happiness . 
and when chris dies after a terrible car accident , she commits suicide - a tortured soul who blames herself . 
despair is perhaps the greatest sin , and she will wallow in her guilt throughout eternity . 
chris , on the other hand , has made it to heaven , and upon learning of annie's fate , he journeys to hell to find her and to try to free her from her nightmare . 
this film brims with imagination , containing a lush imagery that shows the arcadia that is heaven and the bitterness and frightfulness that is hell . 
it seems that heaven and hell could very well be a product of our fantasies or nightmares . 
it's shape and look is as infinite as our imagination . 
as chris explores his new fantastic world and discovers things both amazing and wondrous , he also begins to learn more about himself . 
certain questions baffle him at first . 
why does his home in heaven ooze with paint ? 
what is the significance of the asian stewardess ? 
why does he have an all-too-willing guide ( cuba gooding , jr . ) to help him find annie ? 
but as he slowly begins to realize the answers , it makes him stronger and gives him a greater chance to save annie . 
 " dreams " is both visually and tellingly beautiful . 
alas , i have one regret . 
the movie did well to gather more and more emotional speed , but the denouement was curiously unsatisfying . 
it seemed as if it was racing to some kind of great finish , but its intensity seemed to wane in its final moments . 
however , your eyes will still well up with tears and you'll find lots to savor . 
the storytelling is purposeful and well constructed . 
the journey is imaginative . 
and i was surprised by how much i enjoyed this film . 
it was a crazy time in france , what with the french revolution right around the corner . 
king louis xv would soon die , and his son would become king louis xvi . 
such is the setting for beaumarchais : the scoundrel about the controversial playwright , spy and playboy pierre-augustin caron de beaumarchais . 
beaumarchais was the author of the plays , " the barber of seville " and " the marriage of figaro . " 
today people think of them as quaint and harmless operas , but , back in 1773 when the movie takes place , they were so scandalous that beaumarchais was thrown into prison more than once . 
the movie beaumarchais : the scoundrel takes a light-hearted approach to its subject , resulting in an inviting motion picture . 
one of france's most expensive productions ever , the movie was a huge hit when it opened there last year . 
now in theatrical release in the united states , it eschews the seriousness of most art house films with a romping good story . 
the secret of the film's success , other than the lavishness of sylvie de segonzac's costumes , has to be the performance by fabrice luchini as beaumarchais . 
with his glistening eyes and his infectious smile , he mesmerizes the camera and the audience . 
his wry little lips seem always to hint at some unspoken deviousness he is planning . 
in a land where court intrigue determines one's destiny , constant scheming was a way of life for the aristocracy . 
as our story starts , we learn that beaumarchais has bought himself a judgeship . 
into his court comes a member of the nobility demanding an immediate sword fight . 
beaumarchais , who has been having an affair with the man's wife , makes him wait until the current case on the docket is decided . 
that over with , the fight is on . 
with luchini's charisma , it is hard to root for anyone other than him . 
audiences may remember him from the marvelous colonel chabert , in which he played the attorney . 
although he does not have half of the good looks of his assistant gudin , played by manuel blanc , he dazzles the women and the viewers with his grace and style . 
michael epp's warm and intimate cinematography provides a nice accompaniment to jean-marc kerdelhue's lush but realistic looking sets . 
jean-claude petit's music , especially the hauntingly lovely flute solos , make for an enchanting time at the movies . 
director jean-claude brisville , who wrote the script along with edouard molinaro , fleshed out a play by sacha guitry which , according to the press notes , was just a series of historic vignettes . 
the disorganization of the play still comes through at some points in the movie , but the actors smooth it over with their good-hearted style . 
typical of the scenes that come out of nowhere is the one in which a rotund benjamin franklin appears in a large pot of hot water , taking his bath . 
one episode has beaumarchais working with a renegade spy who may or may not be a man . 
another has beaumarchais using his personal fortune to aid the american revolution . 
all of this may sound like a dull historical drama , but it is anything but . 
the story plays more like theater of the absurd than a movie based on historical facts . 
the radiantly lovely sandrine kiberlain plays marie-therese , the real love of beaumarchais's life . 
but he is so likable that members of the audience may want to compete with her for him . 
still , with his beguiling smile , one can never quite be sure if you should trust him . 
the movie , on the other hand , can be trusted to deliver a high old time . 
beaumarchais : the scoundrel runs 1 : 41 . 
it is in french with english subtitles . 
the film is not rated but would be an r for some nudity and sex , and should be fine for most teenagers . 
what surprises me most about the long-awaited batman is that the movie centers not on the caped crusader but on the joker . 
the dark knight actually has less screen time than his homicidal arch nemesis ! 
i can hear batfans everywhere protesting : " first they had the nerve to cast michael keaton as batman , and now they think they can get away with making him second banana to the joker ! ! " 
and , indeed , this situation would have been altogether inappropriate and intolerable were it not for the fact that someone at warner brothers had the savvy to cast jack nicholson in the role he was born to play . 
nicholson deserves the top billing he is receiving in the posters and opening credits since his astounding , oscar-worthy performance as the joker is the highlight of batman . 
nicholson shows no inhibition or shame as he pulls out all the stops to create a joker that makes cesar romero look like bozo the clown ( romero played the joker in the '60s tv series ) . 
on one hand , nicholson's joker is extremely funny . 
his murderous escapades and manic outbursts ( which include defacing paintings in an art museum and invading the television airwaves with hilarious pirate broadcasts ) bring humor and laughter into an otherwise dark film . 
but on the other hand , his outwardly jovial disposition is only a mask for his intense contempt for all of mankind . 
the joker's cruelty and demented , diabolical nature are truly frightening and sinister . 
this guy is off his rocker , and he not only knows it , he flaunts it ! 
but enough about nicholson as the joker : i'm sure most people are wondering about michael keaton as batman . 
like many , i was outraged when warner brothers announced that keaton had been cast as the caped crusader . 
but batfans need not worry because holy unconventional casting ! 
keaton delivers . 
he is convincing as the tormented millionaire , bruce wayne , and beneath his hard , black body armor , he is mysterious and formidable as the batman . 
even though the screenplay only halfheartedly attempts to develop the character , keaton manages to give hints of the inner turmoil and emotional rage that drive wayne to don his bat gear and battle the low life scum of gotham city . 
visually , batman is a knockout nothing short of a triumph for director tim burton and his production team . 
the movie successfully captures the film noir look and bleak , gloomy atmosphere of such batman comic books as " the dark knight returns " and " the killing joke . " 
burton's film is a feast for the eyes ; the $35 million budget is definitely on the screen . 
the sets , costumes , and make-up are stunning and worthy of oscar nominations . 
nicholson isn't joking when he boasts , " wait 'till they get a load of me ! " 
his grimacing smile , green hair , and purple suits over orange shirts are colorful and outrageous . 
keaton's wardrobe is equally appropriate . 
batman's cape , mask , and body armor make him look threatening , frightening , and invincible bringing to mind not adam west's campy costume in the tv series but peter weir's outfit in robocop . 
production designer anton furst's sets are a wonder . 
gotham city is dark and foreboding , almost as if it were an expressionist vision of new york . 
the batcave is cold , bare , and desolate . 
the world that burton and furst have created in batman is a melancholy nightmare of violence and corruption . 
the movie's gritty bladerunner/robocop look is a joy to behold . 
the plot , on the other hand , is not as rousing . 
the screenplay is not up to snuff in comparison to the stylized sets and superb acting . 
it takes forever for what little story there is to finally kick into gear . 
batman tries to walk a thin line between action and character psychology , but it fails to give us enough of either one . 
as i mentioned earlier , the screenplay gives us plenty of the joker , but it never fully establishes batman's psychological motives and underpinnings . 
in terms of action , batman is not as thrilling as you might expect . 
burton seems more concerned with the visual and dramatic elements of the story . 
more than anything , batman is a mood film . 
while batman may not completely absorb and excite you , it will likely impress you with its success at bringing to life the style and spirit of the batman comic books . 
thanks to its distinctive look , the movie like a good comic book transports us to another world . 
casting " doogie howser " star neil patrick harris as mind-reading military intelligence is only one of the guilty pleasures of " starship troopers , " a hugely entertaining , mega-budgeted sci-fi yarn directed by paul verhoeven , who's making quite a recovery from his 1995 g-string epic " showgirls . " 
sure , " starship troopers " qualifies as cinematic junk food , but that's forgivable when the junk food is this tasty . 
everyone needs a high-calorie change-of-pace from fall's onslaught of costume dramas and other assorted oscar bait , and " troopers " does the job admirably despite its flaws . 
for its first hour , " starship troopers " plays like a cheeky futuristic hybrid of " saved by the bell " and " g . i . 
jane . " 
in the distant years ahead , high school grad johnny rico ( casper van dien ) signs up for federal service along with his girlfriend carmen ( denise richards ) ; he gets accepted into the mobile infantry but she wants to travel to the fleet academy to become a starship pilot , so the couple is broken up . 
but there's temptation awaiting both of them -- johnny's is in the form of an old friend ( dina meyer ) also in the infantry and still harboring a secret crush , while carmen attracts the eye of her flirtatious instructor ( patrick muldoon ) . 
personal rivalry and sexual jealousy carry over into the final 65 minutes , when an impending alien menace begins making good on its threatening presence and obliterates part of south america , killing johnny's parents and destroying his home . 
our weakening , lovesick protagonist is given new reasons to stick around the mobile infantry , and is dispatched with a group of fellow fighters to the aliens' home planet , where he will head up a ground assault to end the threat for good . 
but the enemy is far smarter , more diabolical and numerous than the good guys give them credit for , and after an initial walloping , they must re-examine their strategy . 
the exposition -- played like a futuristic soap opera -- is silly , but aware of its own ridiculousness enough to merit more smiles than groans . 
once we get past the campy character introductions and the numerous ( but never boring ) training sessions , " starship troopers " really kicks into high gear . 
its last half is all gruesomely violent action -- a fury of severed limbs , decapitations , disembowelments , brain removal , explosions and other jolt-inducers that are really going to please the 13- and 14-year-old boys lucky enough to dodge getting carded or caught on their way into this deservedly r-rated show . 
the creature design and special effects are amazing as expected , and their interaction with the human actors are a realistic , imaginative high point . 
it's nice to see intergalactic beasties that aren't too derivative of the titular menace from " alien . " 
these monsters are appropriately terrifying sights , especially the arachnids , a spider-scorpion-crab combo that's all sharp talons and even sharper legs . 
they attack in packs of hundreds , and it's a funny , scary sight to see these bugs take repeated hits and still crawl , jerk and struggle towards their intended victims in a determined , gooey mess . 
it matters not that they actually have a laughable master plan in mind ( ask yourself if a species like this seems capable of carrying out such a plot ) ; these sequences of insect warfare are numerous , bloody and immensely satisfying . 
the occasional dramatic moments -- one cast member's death , the final resolution to johnny's love triangle -- are botched , a testament to how " starship troopers " fails to create any strong , outstanding characters . 
these bland ken-and-barbie archetypes serve the story adequately enough to keep any distractions at arm's length , but restrain the film from achieving a higher ground a la " star wars , " where even the slightest aliens had definite personality . 
the acting is decent ( but never spectacular ) ; most of the performers hail from aaron spelling territory -- smallish roles on " beverly hills 90210 " and/or " melrose place " -- and it occasionally shows . 
van dien , for example , is limited but perfectly likeable . 
in smaller parts are the afore-mentioned neil patrick harris as johnny's best friend and jake busey ( gary's son ) as johnny's sidekick ; the latter excels at playing creeps ( see " the frighteners " or " contact " ) but seems off-kilter as a second banana . 
 " starship troopers " is based on the novel by robert heinlein , a sci-fi writer who hasn't exactly seen any recent adaptation justice done to any of his books what with 1994's howler " the puppet masters . " 
but the overall familiarity to the " alien " trilogy -- and the promise of great gobs of gore -- could act as a crowd-drawer . 
its own possible influence , however , might well work against it when the franchise continuation " alien : resurrection " opens in a few weeks . 
we will know then which film to crown as the best summer movie of the fall . 
historical epic as a genre was almost banished from hollywood in early 1990s . 
for many critics , scholars and , most importantly , film producers , it was a thing of the past - something that could have attracted crowds only in the era of black-and-white television and non-cgi special effects . 
but in 1995 , same as in the case of dances with wolves five years ago , there came the man who decided to use of all his energy and talents of actor , producer and director in order to revitalise that particular genre . 
and , same as in the case of dances with wolves , he was awarded for his effort with " oscars " . 
the name of the film was braveheart , and the name of its director and main actor was mel gibson . 
the plot chronicles the life of scottish warlord and folk hero william wallace ( 1272 - 1305 ) . 
in his time , english king edward i " longshanks " ( played by patrick mcgoohan ) has almost completely subdued entire british isles , including scotland , whose proud inhabitants are now subjected by " ius primae noctis " and various other forms of humiliation and oppression by english knights . 
although english had killed his father many years ago , young scottish commoner william wallace ( played by mel gibson ) doesn't care about politics and wants only to have peaceful life with his new bride murron ( played by catherine maccormack ) . 
murron's death changes that and wallace takes arms and , together with small but dedicated band of followers , begins guerrilla campaign that would systematically destroy almost every english garrison in the country . 
through time , more and more people join his ranks and in 1298 wallace's rag-tag army scores surprising victory against english knights in the battle of stirling bridge . 
but the newly won freedom is endangered by the internal squabbles between scots themselves , especially nobles under pretender robert the bruce ( played by angus macfadyen ) , who wouldn't like to have a simple commoner as a national leader . 
braveheart was only the second film in the directorial career by mel gibson , so it wouldn't be fair to compare it to the better known genre classics directed by david lean or anthony mann . 
however , even when we apply such criteria braveheart is more than decent historical epic that takes new and refreshing approach to the genre . 
the most noticeable element of this approach is naturalism . 
while older hollywood films set in medieval europe used to give fairytale-like vision of picturesque castles , splendid costumes and knights in shining armour , gibson shows us the extremely unpleasant world of poverty and feudal injustice where might made right and life was hard , short and brutish . 
this general unpleasantness is especially underlined in the scenes of battle , where hand-to-hand combat is naturalistically displayed in all its gory details , never seen since verhoeven's ultra-naturalistic flesh & blood . 
compared with this naturalistic approach , most of old hollywood epics look like stage plays . 
braveheart also employs humour at the right places , not only to make bloody realities of medieval british isles more bearable to sensitive audiences , but also to underline its down-to-earth atmosphere , so different from previous historical epics . 
what makes braveheart " larger than life " is his protagonist . 
mel gibson obviously invested plenty of his energy and talent in bringing the mythical figure of william wallace and , as a result , character of 15th century poems is transformed into superhuman being that resembles late 20th century comic book hero . 
wallace is more than superior to his enemies , both physically and mentally , yet he is able to show his sensitive , more vulnerable side . 
naturally , when the character is based on epic poems , most of historical accuracy is going down the drain ( which was the case with almost every historical epic from hollywood in 1990s ) . 
however , even those who don't particularly care about history or are willing to give poetic license to scriptwriter randall wallace might think that he went over the top in idolising wallace , especially in the second part of film when scottish superhero manages to seduce princess isabel ( played by sophie marceau ) and make her a child . 
because of that the disbelief is hardly suspended , and final scenes aren't as effective as they should be . 
mel gibson as an actor is truly wonderful , and he is also helped by small army of very good british and irish actors . 
most memorable of them all is patrick mcgoohan , whose cold , calculated and evil medieval monarch is one of the most effective villains seen in contemporary cinema . 
brendan gleeson ( who would later become famous for his role in boorman's general ) is also very good as wallace's trusted companion , as well as ian bannen is effective as leprosy-stricken king john balliol . 
david o'harra is very entertaining as wallace's irish ally , and angus macfadyen brings a lot of anxiety into his conscience-stricken character of robert the bruce . 
women in this film have rather thankless roles , especially marceau as one-dimensional french princess . 
catherine mccormack as wallace's wife was more interesting , but she was eliminated from the picture early on . 
from the technical point of view , the film is also very good . 
photography by john toll brings a lot of scottish natural beauty to the screen . 
on the other hand , the musical score by james horner employs too much of modern-day instruments for period piece set in medieval times . 
although mostly welcomed by critics and audiences alike , braveheart was often criticised for homophobia and other forms of extreme conservatism . 
the main reason for that was the fact that gibson , among many historical facts , chose to be faithful only to those related to sexual orientation of " longshank " 's son prince edward ( played by peter hanly ) . 
he is not only presented as a villain , but also as one of the less competent in villain's camp - and portraying of homosexuals as villains or inferior to heterosexuals is almost unforgivable sin in " politically correct " hollywood . 
to make things even more obvious , good guys in this film are the total opposite of effeminate and incompetent edward - rugged macho men of mountains who are more practical and efficient because they tend to employ conservatives' common sense instead of fashionable theories of ivory tower liberals . 
however , although the message of this film might look right-wing , it owes more to leftist ideology of various national liberation movements in 20th century . 
according to that ideology , oppressed classes ( workers , peasants ) are better suited to fight for national freedom because their members has less to lose in that struggle and , as such , they are more radical , less willing to make compromises and more efficient ; on the other hand , privileged classes ( aristocracy , bourgeoisie ) are more likely to betray the cause of freedom and be in cahoots with foreign oppressors in order to keep their privileges . 
this marxist worldview is presented in braveheart without any subtlety . 
in the end , whether the audience is patient enough to discover hidden meanings or simply wants to enjoy entertaining historical epic , braveheart is more than adequate choice for all fans of this recently resurrected genre . 
if you had a chance to create a genetically perfect child , would you do it ? 
 " gattaca " is a film which presents a future where society has answered " yes " to this question , but then ponders if this was actually the right decision . 
 " gattaca " came out only a couple months following the first genetically engineered creature , the lovable dolly the sheep , and with this in mind , the film only becomes more frightening . 
the way the realm of genetics is heading , it may only take a couple decades until the future " gattaca " presents becomes true . 
contrary to the misleading trailers , " gattaca " is not a sci-fi thriller , in the way that there's lots of murder , hitchcockian suspense , and chase scenes . 
this is a quiet , sad film about intelligent theories . 
in fact , the film seems like it would have been written by george orwell or aldous huxley ( the latter who's novel " brave new world " featured genetically engineered children ) . 
it's a film that may likely become a cult hit to people who are frightened by a promise of shallow utopia , which is exactly what " gattaca " presents . . . and the main reason i dug it so much . 
the story revolves around the genetically insufficient vincent freeman ( ethan hawke ) , a man with high hopes but a 90% chance of heart problems , and a prospected life span of around 30 years . 
as a child , he was put down because of the threats of genetics , while his younger genetically perfect brother , anton ( loren dean ) , was promised whatever his heart desired . 
vincent yearns to be an astronaut , but when he gets a job at a giant space company , it's as a janitor ( ernest borgnine plays his boss ! ) . 
but one day , he finds out that it's probably possible that his desires can come true in the form of a business deal brought out by a black market geneticist ( or something ) , german ( " wings " ' tony shalhoub , who did like hundreds of cameos in films back in '97 : " men in black , " " a life less ordinary " . . . ) , who's client is a genetically perfect man , jerome morrow ( jude law ) , who has unfortunately been crippled . 
fortunately , though , there's no record of the accident , and he's willing to give someone else his life . 
since vincent looks a bit like him . . . 
after a couple alterations ( some minor , some really major ) , he has donned the life of jerome , and is doing his job . 
there , he meets a genetically imperfect woman , irene ( uma thurman , who's genetically perfect in real life anyway , hee hee ) , and the two begin a kind of relationship , albeit a very shallow one since romance is deemed by how great a man's stats are . 
however , a murder of a high-level worker at his office is killed , and one of vincent/jerome's eyelashes is found by the anal retentive investigators headed by a semi-wily inspector , hugo , ( alan arkin ) , and none other than vincent's long lost brother , anton , who hasn't seen him since they were teenagers . 
we know vincent/jerome didn't do it , but with his older picture being posted everywhere , not only vincent/jerome's in trouble , but also the real jerome , who's as much in it as he is . 
however , there isn't many big suspense set pieces , which is actually a blessing because if they were tossed in , the film would lose it's message and descend into just being a sci-fi thriller a la william gibson . 
the suspense in the film comes from the idea that vincent and jerome can easily be captured just by dropping a hair or dead skin . 
while there are several scenes which are pretty frightening , there are no big distractions from the point of the film , much to the dismay of commercial audiences . 
what is actually portrayed is the lack of life in the utopian society that is created . 
irene has no real spunk in her life , and is rather amazed by the sheer beauty of a sunrise rather than genetically perfect people . 
and the genetically flawless jerome is in actuality a bitter man , claiming that his accident was really no accident . 
what jerome has done is fool the system in giving a man who yearns for better things a chance at that , and the ending is shocking as it's a definite work of dystopian propaganda , but doesn't have the down ending of other works of this kind . 
the production design of this film is probably the best i've seen this year : it's stunning , very pleasing to the eye , but still very cold . 
since genetics has ruled out any chance of improvement , the world has cooled into a state of inhumanity , and the sets echo a sense of shallow misery . 
and the sequence of all the high-level workers doing their jobs has a kind of gilliam-esque feel to it , showing the nightmare of slipping into a routine zombie-like life . 
the ability to perfect people has left humanity cold and generally unhappy . 
the acting from everyone is great , with thurman giving a wonderfully cold performance , and hawke creating a character who has been beaten down by the system but has found a new sense of optimism by a bitter man who was willing to give it out anyway ( interesting pointless fact : uma and ethan started dating after this film , and currently she is pregnant with his child ) . 
but the best performance belongs to jude law , who steals every scene he's in , and creates a character filled with the pessimism over having such a horrible burden placed on his burden . 
i think that people are generally tempted by the fact that genetics can actually create perfection in a child , but whether or not they would actually act on this temptation is something i'm not sure of . 
 " gattaca " warns us not to go any farther , chiefly because we'll create a world of elitism where the elite are shallow and unhappy , and as bitter and angry as the lesser people are . 
and when i see a possible future featuring a 12-fingered piano player , well folks , that just creeps me out . 
in one scene from " the people vs . 
larry flynt , " the hustler magazine publisher appears at a self-staged free speech rally . 
as graphic photos flash on a huge screen behind him , flynt strides confidently across the stage , delivering a rousing speech over what really constitutes obscenity . 
the spectacle was reminiscent of the scene in " patton " where the general spoke in front of a giant american flag . 
both scenes were stirring , larger than life , richly entertaining , and felt totally like contrived set pieces for big hollywood movies . 
overall , that sums up " the people vs . 
larry flynt . " 
the film is a wildly entertaining hoot which , despite being based on fact , feels like a big , phony hollywood movie . 
the son of a kentucky moonshiner , flynt ( woody harrelson ) ran away from home and ended up operating strip clubs in cincinnati . 
there he met althea leasure ( courtney love ) , a bisexual stripper who became his fourth wife and the love of his life . 
to bolster interest in his clubs , he started a sexually explicit newsletter that grew into hustler magazine . 
flynt , along with the magazine's rag-tag management team , headed by his brother jimmy ( played nicely by woody's real-life brother , steak & shake commercial veteran brett harrelson ) , viewed playboy magazine with contempt . 
they mocked its slick articles and airbrushed photos , striving to keep hustler focused on " what guys really want , " explicit photos that would make a gynecologist squirm , and extremely crude humor . 
the film's prime example of hustler's attitude is a cartoon depicting characters from the wizard of oz in an orgy , giving the audience an opportunity to giggle at flynt's " naughtiness . " 
director milos forman conveniently ignores the magazine's frequent attempts to derive humor from child molestation , racism , and endless scatological cartoons . 
flynt's rag labored in well-deserved obscurity until he published nude photos of jacqueline onassis , which brought the magazine international attention , big money and the attention of conservatives . 
an obscenity bust followed , the first in a long series of battles between flynt and the law . 
lawyer alan isaacman ( edward norton ) enters the scene , hired by flynt's wife . 
norton , an exceptional actor , is wonderful as the beleaguered lawyer trying to navigate the legal system while dealing with flynt's increasingly childish and bizarre behavior . 
in court , we meet the sputtering conservatives , headed by citizens for decency leader charles keating ( james cromwell . ) 
as keating blathers about flynt's immorality , the camera slowly moves in for a close-up of his name tag , inviting the audience to gloat at the notion of morality being trumpeted by keating , who was later convicted in a $2 billion s&l fraud . 
flynt's other prime foe is rev . jerry falwell , who sues over a hustler parody involving him and his mother having sex in an outhouse . 
tragedy strikes as flynt is shot by a would-be assassin , leaving him paralyzed from the waist down . 
a dark period follows , as flynt and leasure hole up in an l . a . suite , strung out on pain killers . 
flynt eventually kicks drugs , but leasure succumbs to addiction , and later , aids . 
after watch falwell on tv , describing aids as a punishment from god , flynt directs his lawyer to take the falwell case to the supreme court , leading to the film's climactic courtroom scene . 
 " the people vs , larry flynt " is at its weakest when moralizing on free speech and lionizing flynt . 
 " if they'll protect a scumbag like me , then they'll protect all of you , " declared flynt . 
he's right , of course , but the director forman cheats in portraying the opposition as little more than hypocritical buffoons . 
he also cheats in casting woody harrelson as flynt . 
harrelson is an attractive , charismatic man , and his strong performance paints flynt as a colorful folk hero . 
even a cursory look at the real flynt , who is making the talk show circuit , and plays the judge in an early courtroom scene , shows a bloated , morose and bitter man . 
an accurate portrayal of flynt would have made a more difficult film to watch , but a richer one . 
despite its flaws , " flynt " is a fast moving , rousing movie with some terrific acting , especially by courtney love , whose vibrant performance will likely garner an oscar nod . 
the story may be candy-coated , but it's still delicious candy . 
we all know the fate of " child's play , " which is the same for almost any film these days that does marginally well financially : sequel hell . 
with the newest installment in the quasi-popular series currently out ( that would be " bride of chucky " - and it grossed 11 million in its opening weekend , which i think is the sign of the apocalypse number five ) , it's kinda fun to go back and see how it all began rougly ten years ago with the original , a task which is a retread for some , and for others ( namely myself ) a chance to see what all the fuss was about . 
alas , the original " child's play " actually isn't that bad . 
even seeing it in the tiny , claustrophobic , and mechanically-challenged theatre at my college wasn't the horribly dull experience i thought it would be , not just because of the nicely rowdy crowd ( which you almost need to watch a film like this - and if you don't believe me , try and watch this flick by yourself one day ) , but because as a whole , this isn't a bad movie . 
it's not great , but it does have two things that many horror films like this one don't have : 1 ) a rather nifty premise , and 2 ) a sense of humor , both which save this from horror hell , which is precisely where , say , " i know what you did last summer " has recently gone . 
the premise of " child's play " is that a serial killer named charles lee ray ( brad douriff ) is shot and almost killed by a chicago hard-boiled detective ( chris surrandon - see what happens to some oscar nominees ? ) , and before he dies , utters a voodoo chant that sends his soul directly into a kid's doll called chucky , a doll which has got to be the scariest-looking kid's doll i've ever seen . 
the next day , a bum who's stolen it sells it to single-mother karen barclay ( catherine hicks ) , who then gives it to her young son andy ( alex vincent ) for his birthday . 
of course chucky begins talking to the kid and trying to find a way to get out of the doll , but certain twists come up . 
like the guy he learned voodoo from reveals to him that the only way to break the curse is to take over the body of the first person he told he was inside the doll , that being andy . 
and soon enough , chucky is killing people either for revenge or for what seems like fun , and people are discovering that chucky isn't just a kiddie doll one by one . 
the idea is a neat one , ripe for lots of comic terror , and luckily it utlizes a lot of that . 
it plays with an idea stolen from a classic looney toons short that when someone knows that chucky is alive , they tell people about it , but when he tries to prove themselves , chucky does nothing , and everyone thinks they're crazy . 
it plays with this , as well as the whole child-like thought that dolls and toys come to life , and even manages to cram in a couple really frightening moments . 
even if there's an entire sequence devoted to cliches ( a woman alone in a house hears a noise , goes to investigate it , and finds nothing , but wait for the kicker a second later ! ) , 
there's also a harrowing car ride with chucky trying to knife the detective from the back seat , and then trying to attack him when the car finally crashes , leaving the viewer with at least rather visceral exprience . 
the ending is rather fun , as well , albeit a tad too drawn-out ( about four different endings , maybe five ) , and the characters are more intelligent than the average horror film line-up , making them easier to sympathize with . 
if there's one horrible thing about many horror films , it's that the protagonists are morons who you can't help but shout obscenities at , and for the most part , " child's play " steers away from that . 
and most of all , the chucky character is a good one , not just because he provides instant comic relief ( look ! 
that doll's moving on its own ! ) , but because he's a generally scary character . 
if there's anything really wrong with " child's play , " it's that it's too trite and has too less self esteem . 
at almost 90 minutes , " child's play " features way too less to be a real classic of horror . 
it throws itself into a simple three act set-up that renders it quick and almost forgettable if it weren't for the fact that the film deals with a psychotic doll . 
if the film had more confidence in what it was presenting , it would really push the envelope and become even more than just a short bit of horror escapism , which is precisely why this kind of film is only memorable as a cheap little horor film . . . which 
isn't necessarily a bad thing . 
as such , " child's play " is content to be just the short , typical horror film , but saves itself via a sense of humor and a nice quasi-campy feel that makes it much more enjoyable than the average short , typical horror film . 
director : penelope spheeris ( decline of western civilization ii - the : metal years , dudes , & suburbia ) 
cast : mike myers ( wayne campbell ) , dana carvey ( garth algar ) , : rob lowe ( benjamin oliver ) , tia carrere ( cassandra ) 
summary : wayne and garth have a public access show called " wayne's : world . " 
the show is a underground hit , until benjamin : oliver comes onto the scene . 
benjamin wants to turn the : show into a big hit nationwide , possibly destroying the : essence of " wayne's world " in the process . 
[expectations - medium] 
long review =========== 
i must admit being a bit reluctant going into this film . 
i didn't believe that they ( mike myers and dana carvey ) could hold it up for an hour and a half , i figured that perhaps the first half-hour would be great , and the rest would be " fluff . " 
however , i was really surprised about how well they were able to keep the laughs going for the virtually the whole film , with the exception of the ending . 
 ( which i won't discuss for obvious reasons , but it's not * that * bad . ) 
story : the plot was quite thin , but it really wasn't that noticeable , because of the rapid-fire jokes that myers wrote in . 
alot of the jokes are very similar to hot shots ! , in being very " parodyish . " 
 ( okay , bad term . ) 
extremely witty throughout , although ( as in hot shots ) it got a bit repetitive in the middle . 
acting : as in many comedies , the acting isn't really * that * important . 
however , myers turns in a good performance as wayne , playing the character perfectly , ( although i still liked him better back on much music , in a more " canadian " type of mode . ) 
carvey is okay as garth , but he lacks the spark myers puts into wayne . 
tia carrere is mediocre as cassandra , playing it very stilted . 
lowe is fine as ben oliver , but is nothing to write home about . 
without a doubt , this movie is mike myers all the way . 
direction : spheeris is a classic " music " movie director , making dudes , and decline of western civilization ii -- the metal years . 
 ( she also directed the boys next door , which is different , to say the least . ) 
she is very capable , knows how direct a comedy , the correct camera movements it instill laughs , etc . one of the better jobs i can remember for a comedy . 
overall : i would suggest to anyone that likes snl's skits to go see this film in the theatres . 
however , my personal opinion , as in most comedies , is that they work just as well on video . 
you definately have to be fan of music , and all forms of media in general to enjoy this film . 
without a doubt , this is the best comedy so far this year . 
it'll make tons 'o' dough for everyone involved . 
let's just hope they make a thousand sequels . 
[sorry , i had to get the lame joke in . . . 
forgive me . ] 
natural born killers is really a very simple story that , in essence , has already been told in bonnie & clyde with some major variations in emphasis , mood and degree . 
both films glamorize " outlaws , " in one case bank robbers and killers and in the other mass murderers . 
both relate the story of a couple liberated by love . 
but where bonnie & clyde was partial and subtle , natural born killers is total and blatant . 
where bonnie & clyde was social , natural born killers is psychological . 
what bonnie & clyde hinted at , natural born killers confronts and explores . 
what bonnie and clyde stole , mickey and mallory kill . 
to examine natural born killers as nothing more than a psychological odyssey of realization and exposure of the frauds surrounding them , expressed metaphorically as killing , subdues the mysterious power this film wields . 
for the most part , when mickey and mallory kill , they kill all that frustrates them unnecessarily , they kill what is trying to kill them , they kill what dissembles and cowers from life , they kill what needs to be killed . 
this mythos is at least as old as the hindu trinity . 
brahma created . 
vishnu preserved . 
and siva destroyed , but he destroyed what needed to be destroyed to make way for the useful creations of brahma . 
the following may be painfully mundane but metaphorically so accurate , i'm forced to say it for clarity's sake : a plumber must remove the old lead and copper pipes , that is , destroy the old plumbing system in order to replace it with the new one made of plastics . 
your plumber , bonnie and clyde , mickey and mallory , and siva are all productive destroyers . 
i think you could say without much of a challenge that religion is responsible for more killing and death , presently and historically , than any other phenomena . 
muslims kill christians . 
hindus kill muslims . 
christians kill pagans . 
jews kill christians , etc . you could reverse subject and predicate in each instance and still not be challenged . 
religion is an orgy of killing . 
the institution of the state only misses first place for technical reasons like it hasn't been a major player for as long or the two are frequently indistinguishable . 
 " the state is the divine idea upon earth , " hegel said , meaning it is absolute , all-powerful , ineffable , unassailable , infallible , authoritarian and patriarchal just like jhvh , allah , god , etc . 
well , what does all this have to do with natural born killers ? 
let me first say that religions of this nature , in the ideal , take the place of sex . 
consider the catholic church , which in its hey-dey , took religion as seriously as any other religion or institution ever . 
god takes the place of sex as manifested in all those vows of celibacy taken by the pope , cardinals , bishops , monks , etc . they forego the one , in order to come closer to the other . 
during the middle ages , when this doctrine was unmitigated and unchallenged , the most repressive regime the west has ever known in terms of scope and magnitude rose to power . 
 ( parenthetically , witness plato as well . 
in the republic , he attempted to launch the first systematic absolutist regime . 
not coincidentally he was something of a mystic himself , regularly assailing the passions . ) 
catholicism , as policy , attacks the passions as evil . 
it sees intercourse only as a means to perpetuate the species not as a way to pleasure . 
masturbation is considered a sin with the sacrament of penance necessary for absolution . 
this is religion , this is authoritarianism in its essence . 
as further evidence , the nazis had the same attitudes as the church on these matters . 
our culture , most of the cultures of the world have been steeped in this tradition for thousands of years . 
we can't help but adopt , even internalize some of these same authoritarian attitudes , leading to a destructive split between the biological and social self . 
mickey and mallory knox internalized them , too , then through spontaneous sexual awareness sparked in each one of them by the presence of the other , discovered them , and began expurgating them from themselves and from the world in the process unifying themselves . 
it is a straightforward liberation through sex . 
as some good patriarch once observed , " you can maintain control as long as everyone keeps their clothes on . " 
m&m had a vision of what the world would be like without contradictions . 
they saw what civilization and culture and everyday life would be like under such conditions . 
 " the moment of realization is worth a thousand prayers , " as mickey says . 
as a the most consistent and impassioned critic of western culture there is nietzsche applying his typical stridency to the matter : let us look each other in the face . 
we are hyberboreans--we know well enough how remote our place is . 
 " neither by land nor by water will you find the road to the hyberboreans " : even pindar , in his day , knew that much about us . 
beyond the north , beyond ice , beyond death--our life , our happiness . . . . 
we have discovered that happiness ; we know the way ; we got our knowledge of it from thousands of years in the labyrinth . 
who else has found it ? --the 
man of today ? -- " i 
don't know either the way out or the way in ; i am whatever doesn't know either the way out or the way in " --so sighs the man of today . . . . 
this is the sort of modernity that made us ill--we sickened in lazy peace , cowardly compromise , the whole virtuous dirtiness of the modern yea and nay . 
this tolerance and largeur of the heart that " forgives " everything because it " understands " everything is a sirocco to us . 
rather live amid the ice than among modern virtues and other such south-winds ! 
as far as i can tell , this is what the movie has to say . 
its alleged critique of the media is only secondary , tertiary , quaternary , subsidiary for sure . 
for example wayne gayle's first report ends with some gen x dude saying , " if i were a mass murderer i'd be mickey and mallory , " in his most excellent bill and ted voice . 
on one level you cd make the humdrum observation that because the media had glamorized these two psychopaths that the uncritical , impressionable gen x dumb guy confused the matter and took them for heroes . 
it seems more likely that he made an independent judgement at a subconscious level recognizing what m&m were up to and confessing that if he had the balls to be so honest with himself he'd be just like them , killing and destroying what deserves it . 
let me exemplify what i've been saying by analyzing a scene from the film , namely the scene where mallory fucks the gas station attendant , kills him , and then castigates him for giving her " the worst fuckin' head i've ever had in my life ! ! ! " 
now , i never claimed that mickey and mallory had a perfect relationship , because demonstrably they didn't , and this scene and the ones leading up to it show us this . 
sometimes they are the source of each others frustrations , but unwilling to kill each other , since they love each other so much and are responsible for each others liberation , they must kill in place of their lever . 
it's no secret that in this scene mallory fantasized that her victim was mickey . 
as the attendant approached he took on mickey's character in the eyes of mallory . 
she needed to kill him because of he kidnapped that girl in the hotel room and was having secret fantasies about her while making love to mallory . 
upon discovery , mallory views this as a betrayal , judges him , and commutes his sentence on someone else . 
the style of the movie is a whole 'nother matter that i won't get into very deeply but surely it is partially responsible for its power . 
let me just say that its editing has the opposite effect of a western with shots that linger forever on a salon entrance or the like suggesting the expansiveness , barreness and boredom of the frontier lifestyle . 
the rapid succession of all those 8mm , 16mm , 35mm images from various perspectives with a soundtrack sometimes in sync and sometimes out of sink instills a skittish , frenetic mood . 
also , jungian archetypes abound . 
these can't help but trigger deep psychological responses we can barely understand especially when they flash across the screen for barely a few frames . 
some of the best scenes and lines that come to mind . ( quotes are paraphrased only ) : 
mickey to mallory : " one of these days i'm gonna be cummin' for you , " in prison , while mallory jacks mickey off . 
semen is a symbol for great potential and things to come . 
at the time they haven't yet had sex nor have they killed anyone yet . 
the two of course go hand in hand . 
for an even more explicit semen scene see silence of the lambs . 
mickey during his marriage to mallory : " as creator of my universe , i pronounce us man and wife . " 
the way woody delivers this line is truly haunting , but telling , too . 
it reveals m&m are well on their way to expunging all their destructive tendencies and replacing them with positive ones . 
this is what mickey means by " creator of my universe , " he is giving himself or creating for himself healthy attitudes . 
it is not necessarily a schizophrenic retreat into solipsism as it first appears . 
scagnetti's first meeting with mallory is through her pubic hair he plucks from the gas station attendant's mouth . 
the indian sage releasing mallory's father , who was reincarnated as a snake : " old man , go be a snake , " after telling his " snake story " that ends with " bitch , you knew i was a snake . " 
after mickey shoots this sage to death during a bewildering nightmare , mallory says , " you killed life ! ! ! " 
this is another telling quote because it implies they didn't see themselves as killers of life . 
then what were they killing up to that time ? 
in some case just those zombies faking their way through life , the living dead , as it were . 
in other cases , all the anti-life forces , the cops and their parents . 
the butterfly just before the movie shifts into the prison . 
it of course symbolizes rebirth . 
dr . emil reingold , as portrayed by steven wright , passing judgement on m&m : " mickey and mallory know the difference between right and wrong , they just don't give a damn . " 
this is reminiscent of nietzsche's whole philosophy , and maybe a direct reference to his beyond good and evil . 
mickey : " the rabbit says the moment of realization is worth 1000 prayers . " 
mickey ( again in his interview ) : " me and you , we are not the same species . " 
notice when the escape is in progress we get some role reversals in terms of leadership and control . 
mickey the prisoner becomes the leader of his little gang . 
the wardens become prisoners and the civilians like wayne gayle and his producer follow the leader , no matter who it is . 
mickey : how ya feelin' ? 
wayne : fucking great ! 
mickey : you got the feelin' ? 
wayne : i'm alive . 
i'm alive for the first fuckin' time ! 
what an incredible transformation this is . 
he got the feeling and he couldn't contain himself . 
what a feeling . 
that feeling of metaphysical freedom that you can create your own universe . 
mickey when almost caught in a dead end , " think , think , think , think . " 
go figure it out . 
dwight ( tommy lee jones ) in general , because he may be the sickest fuck in the whole film . 
his whole attitude can be summed up with , " destroy them ! ! ! " 
the bond series is an island in the film world ; where else would we look forward to cliches , and all of the other things that occur in most of these films ? 
where else would pure escapism , a vulnerable hero , the " talking villains , " blatant product placement , predictable action sequences , and lots of promiscuity be hoped for instead of a significant change ? 
i don't understand it myself , but that's what the bond series is based on . 
for ( i think ) 18 films , we've mostly got the same thing over and over again , with some variation ( and a bit of change , most notably in the two dalton films ) . 
but even i , a king of cynicism , can't bitch about it . 
and " tomorrow never dies , " the ( again , i think ) eighteenth bond film , and second brosnan bond film , is no exception . 
thank god ! 
the plot , as in most of them , is pure balderdash , but seems to have a nice kind of edge to it . 
instead of just plain billionaire psychotics , we get a rupert murdoch-esque media mogul/psychotic - elliot carver ( jonathan pryce , looking bitching with a white-haired cru cut , and always talking like he's out of breath ) , who has the admittingly ingenius idea of getting ratings by creating a war . 
no , this is not " wag the dog " - he wants a real war , between china and england , and is stupid enough to put the coverage out before anyone else discovered it . . . in 
comes bond . 
james is sent all around the world , trying to do research on carver , fighting with his men , and running into ( on more than one occasion ) a chinese secret agent like him : wai lin ( michelle yeoh , asian action star extraordinaire . . . and 
co-star of " supercop , " nearly stealing the screen from jackie chan in that one ) . 
the two eventually , and predictably of course , begin working together , and yes , there is some sexual tension between the two . 
luckily , their relationship is never strained , and she never gives into his cassanova-ness until the finale . 
thank god again . 
in every bond film , james bags , on average , three women ( sometimes more , sometimes less - the latter being more potent towards the aids-cautionary dalton ) , and he doesn't spoil this one ( though we never see them , of course - i mean , they need to stay around a pg-13 rating ) . 
there's always one at the beginning with some chick we never see again , the big bond girl ( yeoh ) , and this time we have an almost-cameo by teri hatcher as carver's wife , paris , who , it seems , was once one of the girls he bags at the beginning . 
yes , teri's very attractive , but she seems kind of dull . 
of course , it's not really her fault ; her part is under-written , and she's only in a small part of it . 
oh well . 
and there are always the big henchmen , the guys who do the dirty work for the polished big villains . 
this time we get a tall , arian-looking ( not to mention robert shaw in " from russia with love " -looking ) guy named stamper ( goetz otto ) , who is pretty awesome , although a bit stiff ( well , mostly his posture , really ) . 
and for a bit of comedy , we get a cameo from vincent shiavelli as a german or austrian assassin who is ordered to do in bond at one point . 
the government people have small parts , as usual , with q ( desmond llewelyn , looking near death , sadly ) getting only one scene ( in a more grouchy mood than usual ) , and m ( judi dench ) , getting more than m usually gets ( i mean , it is judi dench ) . 
and for no reason whatsoever , except 'cause he was so good in " goldeneye , " joe don baker shows up again as wade , admitting he has no reason for being there , and is this time more annoying . 
again , oh well . 
the action sequences are not a let-down , although sometimes go on too long . 
they pop up every now and then , mainly because they have to ( for the sake of the series ) , and some significant ones are the opening one , one in a garage with a bmw that runs on remote control , and a motorcylce chase ( on a bmw cycle , nonetheless ) through china streets ( or was it vietnam . . . the 
plot's not really essential ) . 
they're more high-tech , and feature much more laughs , which , yeah , i dig . 
so what if they're distracting ; they're supposed to be ! 
the acting , from most around is great . 
yeoh is , actually , one of the better bond girls , mainly because she's so unique . 
the better bond girls are more independent , and have a certain wily-ness to them . 
pussy galore , with her homoerotic undertones and all , is one of the best , and diana rigg , who married bond at the end of " on her majesty's secret service " only to be killed , added some emotional depth . 
yeoh is notable since she's so active , and has great chemistry with brosnan . 
pryce is an awesome villain , being slimy and lovable at the same time . 
and brosnan is , once again , the mack daddy . 
the bond series is built on cliches , mainly because they're so fun and add to the escapism . 
if you can remember the dalton years , and they're serious direction , you remember how unsuccessful they were , both financially and aesthetically . 
the series would falter if bogged down with too much plot , too many themes , and too much characterization . 
i don't really understand it myself , yet i'm one of the bigger fans of the series in the northeast united states . 
having seen all of them more than once ( yes , i've seen this twice already ) , you can tell i adore them . 
while it's not one of the best , like " goldfinger " or " from russia with love , " " tomorrow never dies " is nonetheless a truly awesome installment , even if not being as fully amazing as some of the better ones . 
this sometimes-tedious and often-moving documentary charts the life and times of anne frank , the young diarist and most-famous victim of adolph hitler . 
writer/director/producer jon blair has collected a staggering amount of historical material on both anne and the frank family . 
we meet miep gies , one of the family's protectors who is still alive . 
she recounts how she found the diary in the days after the germans captured the franks . 
we watch otto frank , anne's father and surviving family member , in interview footage filmed before his death . 
blair successfully combines these clips , footage , and other historical records to recount exactly what happened during that terrible period of european history . 
as narrated by kenneth branagh and with diary excepts read by glenn close , anne frank remembered retells more than just anne's story . 
we meet and learn about the * many * friends , family members , and acquaintances whose lives were touched by this young woman and her writings . 
winner of the last year's academy award for best documentary . 
john sayles' " men with guns " is about what happens to a society when brute force and constant threat of violence are the only means of gaining and maintaining power . 
the film takes place in an unnamed central american country , where the men with guns are the rulers . 
most of the country is divided into tiny segments - some are controlled by guerrillas with guns , some are controlled by army soldiers with guns , and all the spaces in-between are controlled by thieves , bandits , and terrorists . 
all people not fitting one of those descriptions are defined only by their powerlessness . 
however , like so many central american countries , this one also features modernity . 
there is an unnamed capital city that bears all the hallmarks of contemporary civilization : skyscrapers , hospitals , televisions , highways , etc . but , it might as well be in another country because those who live in the comforts of the city have either decided to ignore the violence ravaging the rest of the land , or else they are simply ignorant of it . 
the film's main character , dr . fuentes ( federico luppi ) falls into the latter category . 
one of his patients , an army general , describes him as the most educated man he has ever met , and also the most naive . 
fuentes is a true liberal , a caring man who thinks he can cure the ills of his country by fighting bacteria and ignorance among the indigenous indians . 
with government assistance , he has trained a large group of eager young medical students and sent them into the rainforest to cure and educate . 
this program was to be his legacy , and he repeats over and over that it was a good idea . 
however , when he ventures into that same rainforest to visit his prot ? g ? s , he finds that things have not turned out as he has envisioned . 
as he travels deeper into the forest , going from village to village , the story is always the same : the doctors were all killed by either the guerrillas or the army soldiers , usually for helping the other . 
when dr . fuentes asks a village woman why the army killed one of the doctors , she replies simply , " because they had guns , and we didn't . " 
rational science and all its attempts to cure have been wiped out by the men with guns , because others' sickness and ignorance helps them maintain power . 
dr . fuentes picks up several companions during his journey , all of whom are characterized by their loss . 
first , there is a young boy named conejo ( dan rivera gonz ? lez ) , who has neither a mother nor a father . 
next , fuentes crosses paths with a thief named domingo ( dami ? n delgado ) , who deserted the army because he was tired of being jeered into committing murderous atrocities . 
through his ordeal in the army , domingo has lost most of his self-respect , and defines himself only by his pistol . 
along the way , the group also picks up padre portillo ( dami ? n alc ? zar ) , a priest who has lost his faith . 
as domingo is running from the army , so is portillo - he has been labeled a guerrilla sympathizer , and ran away from the village in which he was preaching . 
last , the group takes on a mute girl named graciela ( tania cruz ) , who hasn't spoken since she was raped two years earlier , her innocence and even her will to live forcefully taken from her . 
sayles two major strengths as a director - characters and setting - are abundantly evident in " men with guns . " 
 ( like many of his films , sayles might have tightened this one somewhat in the editing room , but a longer-than-necessary running time is a sin almost always committed when the director is also the editor . ) 
he creates fascinating , complex characters , especially dr . fuentes and domingo . 
their uneasy relationship is also somewhat humorous in context of the film's overarching theme of violence as power - domingo's attempts to control fuentes with his revolver are constantly undermined by fuentes' belief that the revolver is unloaded ( at first it is , but later is isn't ) . 
the setting is also as thick with detail as the rainforest itself . 
sayles knows how to bring a location to life , whether it be an early twentieth-century coal mining town in " matewan " ( 1987 ) or a contemporary texas/mexico bordertown in " lone star " ( 1996 ) . 
sayles is not a particularly inventive director - he likes to let his actors do most of the work - but he and cinematographer slavomir idziak ( " gattaca " ) successfully evoke both the beauty and the danger of the central american terrain . 
sayles also maintains a strong sense of authenticity by filming everything on location in mexico , using all latin american actors , and having all the dialogue spoken in either spanish or native indian dialects . 
the one exception is a couple of bumbling american tourists who work not only as comic relief , but as evidence of just how clueless the united states is about what is going on a few hundred miles south of the texas border . 
it would not be a stretch to say that " men with guns " is a depressing film . 
in fact , the two feelings it evokes most are hopelessness and failure . 
in addition to loss , the main characters are also failures at something , whether that be dr . fuentes failure to change anything through medicine , or padre portillo's inability to stand up and be the martyr he always dreamed of being . 
nevertheless , it is bleak material sayles has chosen , and he deals with it accordingly . 
the last shot of the film does offer a hint of hope , even in a world where , as one character puts it , " nobody refuses the men with guns . " 
plot : during a 10-week span in london in the fall of 1888 , jack the ripper , a man whose identity was never uncovered , committed five ritualistic , grisly murders of prostitutes . 
this film is based on the graphic novel which assembled a theory behind the century-old mystery . 
critique : awesome ! 
i love dark movies , i love stylish movies , i love good mysteries and i love johnny depp . . . so 
yes , i really dug this movie ! 
the hughes brothers are back with a vengeance , out to show the world that they are directors to be taken seriously , and this movie , my friends . . . is 
very serious ! 
in fact , it's also very gruesome and bloody and morbid and creepy and black as hell . 
it ain't for the kids , i'll tell you that much . 
and if any of those recent hack directors of two-bit scream-esque slasher flicks want some advice on effective " kill scenes " , do not look any further , because each one committed to this film is a cinematic stunner , especially when compared to their generic slice-and-dice contrivances . 
in fact , most of this film's structure is very creative , the actors , all solid , the atmosphere and " feel " of the picture , remarkably real ( gotta love those " unfortunates " ) , and the descent into darkness , well honed by the filmmakers . 
you can almost taste the seediness off the screen and quickly come to appreciate the politics of the time . 
but it's also an impressive mystery film , based on the true-life tale of jack the ripper , a man whose identity was never discovered . 
the theory in this film is based on the graphic novel " from hell " written by alan moore and presents a compelling story , which despite being a little oliver stone-ish , did manage to tie up all of its loose ends quite nicely , and present us with an entertaining bowl of mayhem , sexual depravity , drug usage , insanity , murders and love ? 
yes , the brothers even managed to slip a little " love " story in here , and despite not truly being developed , i guess it could've been much worse and taken up more time than was provided already . 
that's right , there's no real need to put any " romance " in a film about a mass murderer ! 
but that aside , you gotta give up the props to actor extraordinaire johnny depp , who once again possesses the strength in character and flawless acting abilities , to center this movie all the way through . 
sure , he's just playing a less goofier version of his ichabod crane character from sleepy hollow , but he does it so well and even added a michael caine accent to his mixed bag of tricks in this one . 
i was also surprised at how little heather graham annoyed me in this film ( i was sure that her presence would ruin this movie , but she was fine ) and how little the dreams/fantasies of depp's character had to do with the film's development ( from what i had seen in the trailer , i thought the filmmakers were going to make this the crux of the story , but thankfully , it wasn't ) . 
on the downside , the film doesn't really explain the whole freemasons cult organization real well and lacks character development . 
but then again , a story about the most mysterious serial killer of all-time is probably not the ideal spot for character refinement . 
i mean , the less i knew about each person , the more suspicious i became of each one's motives , reasons , etc . . . 
in fact , i was actually quite surprised by who was presented as the killer in the end , and that was in part , due to the distance to which i'd been held from the film's characters . . . or 
am i giving the filmmakers too much credit for something that might not have been their intention ? 
perhaps . 
overall , this is an extremely creepy production , with glorious cinematography ( reminiscent of coppola's dracula and burton's sleepy hollow ) , a grim score and solid acting . 
but it's not for everyone . 
some may be utterly repulsed by the gory particulars of these tragic events , and even though the murders aren't shown as graphically as you might think , there's enough here to send the squeamish right out the doors . 
but i for one love movies that blend their eclectic visual style with an interesting mystery and palpable , gothic atmosphere , and this flick is just that and plenty more ! 
and god knows that i will certainly not be surrendering the burnt image of jack the ripper's haunting cape silhouette and gleaming silver knife from my mind anytime soon . . . brrrrr ! 
where's joblo coming from ? 
the crow ( 9/10 ) - dark city ( 9/10 ) - dracula ( 7/10 ) - jfk ( 9/10 ) - the nightmare before christmas ( 10/10 ) - the ninth gate ( 8/10 ) - the others ( 9/10 ) - quills ( 8/10 ) - shadow of the vampire ( 6/10 ) - sleepy hollow ( 8/10 ) 
in `enemy at the gates' , jude law is a gifted russian sniper made hero by a political officer named danilov ( joseph fiennes ) who uses him in a propaganda newspaper to raise the hopes of the soldiers and people of stalingrad . 
it's world war ii , and the russian-german standoff in town could determine the outcome of things for the motherland . 
law's vassili is the russian's top pawn to victory . 
lots of war stuff happens . 
an older , german version of jude's character played by ed harris shows up halfway into the proceedings . 
he's equally talented , and the two men play a cat and mouse game trying to kill each other . 
they constantly switch roles , as the war fades far into the background . 
the cast also includes the terrific rachel weisz as a love interest for both vassili and danilov 
the set-up is decent , and so are the production values . 
boasting a wide range of grimy locales , greasy hair , and tattered costumes , the art direction prospers . 
the actors , however , suffer the problem matt damon had in `saving private ryan' . 
either their eyes , teeth , skin , or a combination of other features looked too white and clean . 
with dirt and blood all around , the blinding teeth or bright eyes of these actors divert attention from the action . 
that said , the players are mostly good in their roles , although i don't think ed harris was really trying . 
maybe he realized his role struck a difficult chord in one-notedom . 
while the film is technically about snipers , there are far too many predictable sniping scenes . 
director jean-jacques annaud expects us to view each tense situation with jude and some cohort in a tight spot as edgy and exciting , but after about the sixth time , in which we realize that jude is not going to die , it's relatively pointless . 
we get that he's talented , okay , let's move on . 
that's the problem with `enemy at the gates' ; it just doesn't know when to stop . 
witness the wasted seventeen minutes that could have been spent elsewhere . 
reestablishing his title as the most beautiful ( and often talented ) man on film , jude law carries the movie . 
without him , this costly production would have gone into the ground . 
the story and acting are of good quality , but there's never a sense of authenticity or reality . 
something about this war movie is undeniably modern , and it loses its feeling . 
strange enough , the screenplay is based on the true story of a real russian sniper . 
it's been a good long while since we had a good old fashioned thriller , where mostly everything goes right for the audience and wrong for the characters , but it's been even longer since i saw a thriller that actually * shock * cared for the characters , not merely judged them but actually allowed their human foibles , flaws , and strengths to emerge so radiantly . 
i'd saw that it's been at least a couple decades , even as far back to the great hitchcock thrillers , though i'm hardly comparing " a simple plan " to , say , " rear window " or " strangers on a train . " 
yet it's almost as good . 
it's simple , yet strangely complex , and astonishingly rewarding , because instead of moving from plot point to plot point , and merely laying out they-might-be-caught overtones , it instead concerns itself with the moral corruption and depths of greed that its protagonists can go to , all without ever judging them as either evil or even immoral . 
elegantly directed by sam raimi ( yes , the same ) , " a simple plan " concerns itself with the discovery of a crashed plane and within a bag full of millions of dollars by an upright , moderately financially stable working man ( bill paxton ) , his dim-witted brother ( billy bob thornton ) , and his drinking buddy ( brent briscoe ) . 
without anyone around , and the possibility that no one would come looking for it , the three debate and debate but finally reach the decision that yes , they will keep it , but until any authorities or possible owners of the cash come looking , and so they generally don't flaunt anything they don't want to flaunt , they'll keep it stored away in the custody of paxton . 
the possibilites of this circumstance are much diverse : a ) they could endlessly play cat and mouse with the authorities ; b ) they could try to fight off the rightful owners , who are either villainous or just ; or c ) they could fight amongst themselves . 
 " a simple plan , " though borrows a little from each of these . 
a little tiff with the cops here , a subplot involving an alleged fbi agent ( a chilling gary cole ) there ) , and a bit of inside feuding over here . 
but , as austin powers would say , that's not necessarily its bag ( baby ) . 
what i most admired about this film , and what makes this a far superior and unique thriller is that it's successfully able to have its cake and eat it too . 
it effectively involves some of the traditional thriller cliches , like the ones mentioned above , but at the same time , it involves itself more deeply with the way the characters become morally corrupt and what price they have to pay to have what they think is happiness in a black duffle bag . 
so while steps are taken to neatly cover things up , and these subsequent steps go miserably awry , the film choses to never loose the sight that in covering things up to the extent that these characters have to , they are slowly losing their souls and their humanity . 
in one early scene , paxton and thornton have to make a trip back to the plane to return some of the money so it doesn't look like it was all stolen ( not a bad idea ) , when thornton screws up ( as he does continuously throughout the movie ) , and paxton has to do some major covering-up ( read : homicide ) . 
instead of a quick murder and immeadiate hands-washing , raimi shows a lengthy , painful shot from a low-angle onto paxton's face as he tries to sift through his emotions and reach a conclusion . 
there's a similar shot afterwards of paxton watching the murder he's committing and taking in all the horror which is also wonderfully effective , but the previous shot is even better : more morally complex and more gut-wrenching . 
in short , probably the best piece of direction raimi's ever done , demonstrating once again that sometimes the simplest way to do something yields the best results ( for further proof , watch " persona " 's " sex scene " and witness what may be the best scene ingmar bergman's ever done ) . 
but the film hardly stops here ; it follows completely through and rarely loses sight of its characters humanity and the depletion thereof . 
yet it also moves from step to step in such a graceful method that we never feel like the film is merely stamping out the plot points of the story . 
when the time comes for paxton to start becoming selfish and thus diabolical ( with aid from his pregnant wife , played by bridget fonda , a pal to raimi ) , he does , and soon the horror of the situation is escalating to tragic heights . 
there's at least two grand shootouts , and at least one of them may be one of the greatest shootouts in cinema history , and when they arrive , they don't come with masochistic delight but with cringe-inducing horror . 
during the one , i was actually sinking into my chair , with the mantra " they can't do this , can they ? " 
streeming through my head . 
in fact , this film , which is getting many comparisons to the coen's [superior , but forget about it] " fargo , " has many similar moments of manic insanity , attributed to the major amount of subtlety and restraint with which the directors direct what , in other hands , would be over-the-top distractedness ( imagine , i suppose , robert rodriguez directing this . . . then 
again , after seeing the " evil dead " films , i'd hardly assume raimi would be able to pull something like this off , although there are moments of the film which are easily dubbed " raimi " moments , a rifle-shot notwithstanding ) . 
instead , raimi directs with maturity and a gentle touch , easily letting the story and characters co-exist , while still letting some of the more traditional raimi elements come out , like some offbeat comic touches . 
most particularly , billy bob thornton's character , jacob , is a brilliant creation . 
his dim-wittedness is often hilarious ( for most of the film , every line he uttered was greeted with howling laughter ) , but there's authenticity to the performance that strangely enough makes sure that we're not totally laughing at him . 
the chuckles he gets are not necessarily ones of full-condescension because thornton is so damn real . 
jacob's a multi-dimensional character , and while being stupid , we see that as not so much a flaw , but a strength to his character : his simplicity is endearing and many of the acts he commits are out of a strong inner strength and belief system , primarily towards the middle where his bud and co-conspirator begins to make some heavy waves concerning the money . 
the final third of the film spends much time with him , and many of the touches upon his character , not only by thornton but also by screenwriter scott b . smith ( adapting his own book , by the way ) are just great . 
i particularly admired a back story about an old high school girlfriend , told by thornton with such sincerity and acception that the cruel story is reversed to near-sweetness and further strength of his saddened character . 
thornton is absolutely brilliant in this performance , by far the best performance he's ever given and further proof that he's the best character actor in contemporary cinema ( if you don't believe me , go back and watch his wonderful performance in " primary colors , " a performance that would have been nominated for an oscar if this hadn't been in the same year ) because he's easily able to slip into a character , and make him completely and utterly believable . 
he brings so much weight to the film that , as it is with most character actors , it's difficult picturing anyone else in the role . 
the rest of the cast is great too , from paxton's declining working man to chelcie ross' amiable town sheriff . 
even fonda shows off her talents nicely . 
and if i had any complaints about the film , it's that the plot is almost too simplistic , and that at times , it seems too much like an exercise , like a cruel test on humanity that still pays attention to the humanity involved . 
and the occasional narration is , as it usually is , annoying ( narration should be used with extreme caution , especially when you're trying to set things up and/or express emotions - didn't raimi watch the first murder scene ? ) . 
and , the thing that can most usually go wrong with a movie , the ending is basically amiss . 
i won't reveal it , but it's way too cruel and too much of an outsider set-up , as if the appearance of a plane wasn't already too much of that anyway . 
for a film that deals so much and so intimately with the humanity of the characters involved , this is the wrong ending . 
imagine a character-controlled ending ; otherwise , it's like if in " crime and punishment " if the police had caught him instead of him breaking down and confessing . . . not that i'm at all comparing " a simple plan " to dostoevsky . 
the ending does work , despite my protestations , but to me , there was something incessantly nagging and unsatisfying about it ; but if you had no qualms and were happy as a clam with it , then just ignore me and go about your day . 
but despite my mere claims , make no mistake that i was completely and utterly edge of my seat throughout , and even sometimes curdling up by the situations that occured , not because of any kind of gore factor ( which is , thankfully for this , very minimal ) , but because the film places its characters in situations and gives them such painful things to overcome that i've frankly not seen much like it in quite awhile . 
at least not since the previous worthy hitchcockian masterpiece . 
some of my friends who went to live in usa complain about one thing - that country is very different from the one depicted in hollywood movies . 
that is especially true for those who end up somewhere in that unexplored land between los angeles and new york where they find , to their big surprise , that the majority of people vote republican , go to church every sunday and usually don't tolerate liberal attitudes that are taken for granted in an average american film . 
such rude awakening , however , can happen in another direction - conservative people are sometimes forced to discover unpleasant truths about world they live in . 
something like that happens to jake van dorn ( george c . scott ) , successful grand rapids businessman who shares strong calvinist convictions with the rest of his community . 
one day his daughter kristen ( ilah davis ) disappears from calvinist youth convention in california . 
van dorn is worried because he doesn't believe that his daughter would run from home . 
however , the truth delivered by private investigator andy mast ( peter boyle ) is even harder - kristen is spotted in cheap pornographic film . 
infuriated van dorn is unsatisfied with the way mast's investigation is going , so he goes to los angeles to search for kristen himself . 
unfortunately , he lacks experience and the quest , that brought him to the utter depths of sex underworld , is fruitless . 
things change when he devises cunning plan and , while doing it , stumbles on sympathetic prostitute and part time porno actress nicky ( season hubley ) . 
almost two decades after its release , hardcore is mostly forgotten by critics and film scholars . 
it is a real shame , because very few movies in today's hollywood would dare tackle controversial issues that writer and director paul schrader explored in his second directorial attempt . 
in late 1970s , it was totally different situation - films were expected to have mature , serious themes for the mature audience . 
for schrader this film was nice opportunity to expand the subplot of his previous work , taxi driver - one that deals with the great generational divide that tormented the american society in 1970s . 
on one side we have an old america that sticks to the puritan ideals of hard work and strict morals that made that country great . 
but that america is obviously unable to cope with the new challenges brought by the social turmoil in 1960s and , instead of facing them , prefers to live in rural , conservative cocoons . 
the new america , on the other hand , fares no better - ideals of the so-called " sexual revolution " , same as all other " revolutions " of the swinging sixties , degraded into exploitation and depravity . 
instead of being " liberated " , baby boomers are stuck with their own inability to cope with the newly discovered freedoms . 
schrader very cleverly brings the idea that those two americas , actually , aren't so far away - nice example is a brilliant scene in which van dorn , already described as an authoritarian and paternalistic capitalist , meets sleazy porno producer ; the latter one also turns out to be authoritarian , paternalistic and very dedicated to this job . 
the difference between the two is simply in the line of work . 
many contemporary critics actually accused schrader of promoting conservative agenda . 
on the surface , it may look that way - audience is forced to sympathise with van dorn and his quest . 
in the first scenes , he is portrayed as nice family man who actually doesn't deserve to experience parent's worst nightmare . 
the scene in the porno cinema that reveals kristen's fate is extremely cruel ; pain and humiliation , brought by oscar-winning actor george c . scott , is of such intensity , that the audience feels sorry for him and simply must support his agenda . 
van dorn is perhaps flawed , and the subtle hints lead to the unflattering truth at the end ; but the viewers simply know that his cause is just , and that prodigal daughter must be better off with her loving father than with the sleazy pornographers that only want to exploit her body . 
on the other hand , schrader , who grew up in an environment very much like van dorn's ( his own parents wouldn't allow him to watch movies until he was 18 ) , knows better and tries to bring another side of coin . 
even the people connected with sex underworld can show redeeming qualities - like nicky , who actually tries to improve her life , and sleazy detective who develops something like a conscience at the end . 
unfortunately , schrader fails to erase the impact of the shocking scene at the beginning , and his attempt to reconcile the opposing sides of america seems lost in somewhat clich ? d finale . 
the script is slightly flawed , and schrader as director doesn't show too much originality - his style seems too influenced by techniques that scorsese used in taxi driver . 
apart from the scenes in grand rapids , those two films even look alike . 
but the content might be more than interesting for today's viewer , especially those inspired by the current 70s revival . 
until boogie nights , no hollywood mainstream movie ever dared to explore the phenomenon of pornography in 1970s . 
hardcore , on the other hand , might serve as precious document , because it depicts sex film industry in the period often regarded as the golden age by connoisseurs - before the advent of video , when many of the porno filmmakers could afford to think of themselves as artists . 
the view of such age and the industry is very unflattering , though , but for the film whose main character takes time to explain calvinist doctrines to the audience , that shouldn't be too surprising . 
anyway , despite some flaws , hardcore remains very interesting and powerful piece of cinema . 
vampire lore and legend has always been a popular fantasy element , substantiated by not only the sheer number of movies about the subject , but also the proliferation of cults and sects of adherents . 
and , unlike any of the more outlandish myths , the vampire holds some real-world probability ( one study claims 1 , 000 bloodsuckers exist worldwide , and places 50 in los angeles ) . 
but lest the nasties be mistaken for simple comic book bad guys , john carpenter would like to remind us that they are - and always have been - a truly frightening element of the thriller genre . 
and remind us he does in his latest film , vampires . 
there was some question , as halloween weekend approached , of how well vampires would do in comparison to new line cinema's immensely successful blade , released in august . 
the two films take noticeably different stands on the vampire issue , and don't even agree on some basic points of the slaying method . 
 ( for instance , blade's main weapons are silver and garlic , whereas main character jack crow's technique is a wooden stake to the heart . ) 
blade also gives more of a face to the vampire civilization , while carpenter would like us to remain in the dark about how the pasties operate . 
both have their advantages , and here , carpenter's style lends itself to a darker breed of suspense rather than the action movie that blade director stephen norrington delievered . 
when it's all said and done , though , the vampires still kill and die with a bloody flourish ; the level for gore is indeed set to maximum . 
this time , our hero is vatican-sponsored slayer jack crow ( james woods ) . 
he's a cynical , battle-worn veteran , and the best of his bunch . 
he and his team are responsible for cleaning out the american southwest , and after exterminating a nest one night , they run up against a super-vampire ( termed a " master " ) named valek ( thomas ian griffith ) . 
valek kills all of jack's team except for his partner , tony montoya ( daniel baldwin ) , and as the two regroup , they learn that valek is the original vampire - now over six hundred years old . 
apparently , valek and his minions have been sweeping the southwest for decades in search of a cross that will enable them to walk in the daytime . 
so with the aid of a priest named adam ( tim guinee ) and a bitten hooker ( sheryl lee ) as bait , they track valek down for the final confrontation . 
the script for vampires , written by don jakoby and based on the john steakley novel , is perhaps the wittiest piece of screenplay to see production all year . 
crow , in particular , is a fun source of one-liners , and woods does every one of them with perfect stoicism . 
baldwin , lee , and guinee are all fine supports , adding to the character pool , but the other true highlight of the movie is thomas ian griffith's bad guy . 
griffith's intense expression is perfect for the role , and the only downside is that he's got to talk sometime . 
luckily , he's got few lines , and manages to pull off a rather thrilling performance . 
all said , fans will surely be impressed by this picture , and those who found apt pupil a bit limp will be excited by this one . 
certainly a worthwhile visit to the theaters . 
if the current trends of hollywood filmmaking continue , we are probably five or six years away from the moment when the 1980s would become the next golden age of movie nostalgia . 
although some hollywood products already use the last decade as a background for their stories ( mostly in ironic way , like grosse pointe blank and romy & michelle's high school reunion ) , some time should pass before the good memories of that era overcome the bad ones . 
until that happens , 1980s would be remembered as the decade of greed , when the revolutionary ideals of 1960s turned into its cruel , materialistic opposite and the money became the only thing that matters . 
contemporary movies are good in illustrating what was bad for the people who had to live in those times . 
one of such movies , one that probably brings the essence of 1980s to the screen , is william friedkin's to live and die in l . a . 
the money isn't just the symbolic motive in the film , it is the major elements of the plot . 
rick masters ( willem dafoe ) is an ex-convict who used his artistic abilities in order to become one of the best counterfeiters in l . a . being too intelligent to fall into police traps , and ruthless enough to eliminate anybody or anything that could jeopardise his career , masters managed to elude law for years and became well- connected . 
richard chance ( william l . petersen ) is a secret service agent , adrenaline junkie whose life gets new meaning after his partner got killed by masters . 
however , his plans of bringing the counterfeiter down meet one obstacle after another . 
finally he sets up a final sting , but his superiors deny him the necessary money . 
being frustrated , and against the reluctance of his new partner john vukovich ( bill pankow ) , he decides to get the money by robbing underworld courier . 
their plan backfires with almost tragic consequences when their target turns out to be undercover fbi agent , but chance decides to carry out his scheme anyway . 
like french connection , one of his previous masterpieces , this friedkin's movie was inspired by real life . 
gerrald petievich , author of the novel that later served as basis for his screenplay , spent many years working as a secret service agent . 
that turned to be useful for the portrayal of that law enforcement agency , not much utilised by hollywood . 
secret service millieu was also cleverly used in order to bring the viewer into the decade of greed ; the beginning scene where the movie's hero works as a part of presidential security detail is a nice opportunity to hear reagan's speech that could illustrate the political and economical notions of those times . 
ultramaterialistic and egotistical view of the world is shared by almost any character in the movie . 
willem dafoe brilliantly portrays dangerous and intelligent psychopath , whose ruthlessness and lack of any moral fibber doesn't seem like affliction in the reagan years ; on the contrary , those qualities actually makes masters socially acceptable . 
compared with him , and all the other side characters that want their " piece of the action " , two heroes on the side of law seem like losers . 
instead of being a classical good guy , secret service agent richard chance ( portrayed by william petersen in his most impressive role so far ) is nothing more than a lunatic whose adrenaline addiction and madness work against his better judgement ; his sidekick , who should serve as those " better judgement " is a weakling and sentimental fool that gets suckered in the end . 
in such surroundings of moral decay , the not so happy , yet surprising ending doesn't seem out of line ( although the very last shot leaves too much questions unanswered ) . 
the dark atmosphere of l . a . - city of glamour and moral decay - is nicely captured by william friedkin's directing skills . 
the tight and realistic scripts with memorable characters ( portrayed by such capable actors like john turturro , dean stockwell , debra feuer , darlanne fleugel and steve james ) gave opportunity for friedkin to use another gimmick that made him famous in his 1971 masterpiece - great car chase . 
that scene alone , with lot of realism , thrills and surprise twists , is worth seeing the rest of the film . 
the soundtrack , provided by now almost forgotten band " wang chung " , is also one of the more memorable of that decade . 
in every case , to live and die in l . a . is one of the rare movies in which hollywood actually tries to tell some unflattering truths about the world and succeeds in it . 
jean-luc picard ( patrick stewart ) and the rest of the crew of the u . s . s . 
enterprise are back for their third outing in the ninth film based on the 1960's series , star trek . 
gone are kirk , spock and mccoy and in their wake in the very able and very talented cast from star trek : the next generation . 
as usual , a crisis is brewing and it is up to the crew of the enterprise to make the galaxy safe again . 
this time out the united federation of planets and an alien race led by f . murray abraham are trying to move some colonists off a planet against the colonist's will . 
it turns out that this planet is the fountain of youth and the federation and their alien buddies feel that is should be used for the good of everyone and not just a few hundred colonists . 
of course picard feels that this sort of treachery is wrong , so he disobeys direct orders and vows to help protect the colonists . 
insurrection is a lighter movie than the last two star trek films . 
the film focuses on the lofty question of whether the rights of society as a whole outweighs the rights of a small group . 
in this respect it gets back to the roots of star trek by disguising social commentary as science fiction . 
it doesn't do a bad job , other than it tries to inject too much humor into the story line . 
many of the jokes are your typical inside star trek-fan-only jokes , while many of the others just fall flat . 
the other criticism that i had with the story was that it ignores common sense . 
there are only a few hundred people on this whole planet , why do they have to be moved ? 
the explanation is that the planet has to be bombarded with deadly radiation so that this fountain of youth effect will be strong enough to help heal f . murray abraham's aliens who number only a couple of dozen . 
so the basic story line is bad enough in that we have a few hundred being booted out for a few billion , at least that's plausible . 
but in reality we have a few hundred being moved for the benefits of a few dozen , which makes no sense whatsoever . 
the other little hiccup in logic is the inclusion of worf ( michael dorn ) , the trusty klingon . 
worf was on star trek : the next generation , so they want to include him in the films . 
no problem so far . 
worf is now a character of star trek : deep space nine , so the writers have to find a way to have him show up . 
in the last star trek movie , first contact , the included worf in a credible fashion , in this one , the writers are so lazy that the completely gloss over why he is even in the movie . 
what little explanation they do give is so small that you would have missed it if you weren't hanging on every word on the screen . 
my minor problems with the movie aside , star trek : insurrection does have an overwhelming number of good points as compared to its bad ones . 
while many of the jokes do miss the mark , many are pretty good , even for non-trekkies . 
the special effects are among the best for the star trek series . 
the action is plentiful and well done . 
this is a very good-looking movie . 
it should come as no surprise to anyone who ever watched star trek : the next generation that the acting is first rate . 
it is very obvious that these actors have been working together for over a decade . 
they interact with each other with a skill that few other ensemble casts can muster . 
most star trek fans probably will not be disappointed with this latest film in the series . 
if you've always hated star trek , there is nothing here that is going to change your mind . 
star trek : insurrection is not the best film in the series , but it is good enough to dispel the long standing tradition of the odd numbered films in the series being far inferior to the even numbered ones . 
the promotion for fear and loathing in las vegas ? has made the film out to be a comedy , and for about the first hour or so it seems like it might be one . 
it's 1971 , and the hippie movement has left behind quite a few wash-outs , among them journalist raoul duke ( johnny depp ) and his " attorney " dr . gonzo ( benito del toro ) . 
these two spend most of the film in a drug-induced stupor , having strange hallucinations , trashing their hotel rooms , and either annoying or scaring almost everyone that crosses their path . 
duke is first assigned to cover an outdoor desert motorcycle race in las vegas , but gets lost in a blur of drugs , beer , and flying dust , and ends up wandering around with no clue who won . 
he leaves vegas briefly before he is sent back , in what can only be described as a strangely appropriate twist of fate , to cover a drug enforcement conference . 
fear and loathing has been misinterpreted by some as glorifying the use of drugs . 
it doesn't , even in the beginning--while the pair's antics are sometimes amusing and relatively harmless at first , the humor here is still fairly dark . 
director terry gilliam views them with a rather satirical eye , and even when we're laughing , we're laughing at them rather than with them . 
they spend most of their time paranoid , angry , or just plain befuddled , which is probably an understandable reaction to seeing the entire room suddenly fill up with giant reptiles . 
the black comedy may be entertaining to watch onscreen , but it's probably not something most other audience members would want to experience first-hand . 
all this aside , i was starting to grow a bit restless as the film drew near its one-hour mark , thinking to myself that i wanted something more out of this than just an off-kilter satire of drug culture . 
thankfully , the script delivers it before too long , as duke , in a rare moment of lucidity , stops to recall how he was once an enthusiastic hippie , " riding the wave " of something that seemed special and important . 
now it's six years later and the wave has finally broken , as he puts it . 
materialistic culture is still alive and well and , for most of this film , right in his face in las vegas ; the " american dream " of which duke occasionally speaks is still just as shallow and phony as ever . 
the social protesters have lost , and the more questionable aspects of the movement have turned ugly and left casualties such as duke to drift in a sea of drugs and disillusionment . 
in many ways , fear and loathing is gilliam's most reality-based film ; all of his others , with the exception of the fisher king , have made use of some sort of fantasy or science-fiction plot elements . 
yet it is his off-the-wall masterpiece brazil ? to which this film bears the most visual resemblance . 
the protagonist of brazil found himself alternately surrounded by a plastic , soulless society and the constant chaos of totalitarian police inspections and terrorist attacks , and similarly duke's world is composed of the artificial , empty glam of las vegas and the bizarre anarchy of his drug hallucinations . 
unlike the protagonist of brazil , however , duke is not a particularly admirable figure , and neither is gonzo . 
during the latter half of the film , their trips turn nastier and the consequences worse , eventually building up to an incident an a diner in which gonzo crudely frightens and humiliates a waitress , while duke , though he doesn't seem to approve , doesn't do anything to stop it either . 
by the time this scene takes place , they don't seem like hippies or peaceniks or protesters or anything of the sort any more ; they just seem like a couple of stoned jerks in a diner . 
duke seems to realize at some level that he's become something he doesn't like , but he's either too apathetic or too defeated to do anything to change . 
this film has taken a critical drubbing from many who view it as an essentially pointless film that simply throws one trip scene after another at the audience . 
while gilliam may have overdone it in a few places , i think he and his co-writers deserve more credit than that . 
there's plenty of substance here , particularly in the second half ; its observations about the broken and defeated rebels from the '60s and the objects of their rebellion just aren't usually very pleasant . 
unlike , say , brazil ? or the fisher king , both of which feature a character who dares to let himself dream in a repressive environment , fear and loathing in las vegas ? shows us someone who's given up on his dreams and resorts to the quick fix of drugs . 
in its own psychedelic , whacked-out way , it's sad and regretful , but i think it's also a bit of a kick in the pants , a challenge to find an alternative between chemically-induced withdrawal and the equally addictive drug of vegas-style materialism . 
indeed , duke himself admits at one point that he's never learned to accept that you can get higher without drugs than with them . 
i'm not sure if he's any closer to accepting it by the end or not , but i suspect the audience will get the idea . 
james cmaeron's breakthrough feature was the first of his films to showcase his obsession with technology and more specfically technology run amok . 
for those of you who do not know the plot : in 2029 machines have engineered a nuclear for the expressed purpose of wiping out the human race . 
human survivors are systematically hunted down and destroyed . 
however , some humans are fighting back led by the heroic john connor . 
to stop connor , the machines send a terminator ( arnold schwarzenegger ) back to 1984 to murder connor's mother , sara ( linda hamilton ) , and thus prevent connor from ever being born . 
in response , the humans send a protector , kyle reese , played by michael biehn . 
images of machines and of humans' reliance on machines dominate the film . 
even though the characters know that the benign oil drillers of 1984 will become the ruthless hunter killers of 2029 , humans continue to use the machines . 
in the climax of star wars , luke relies on the force alone--his own spiritual power--to destroy the death star . 
in the terminator , however , sara must use another machine--a giant hydraulic press--to vanquish her enemy . 
cameron seems to be implying that this reliance on technology is inescapable--and he's not happy about it . 
unabated technological growth brings about the terminator's other obsession : the apocalypse . 
we have plenty of imagery regarding armageddon : thousands of human skulls line the streets of future la . 
children watch the flames in a burning television . 
when the terminator arrives in 1984 an almost biblical lightning storm precedes him . 
even though the " future is not set , " there is no doubt about where the world is headed at the end of the movie : the machines will rise and the humans will have to struggle for their very existence . 
all sara can do is await it . 
 ( cameron doesn't wimp out like he does in terminator 2 ) 
the end of the world is the human race's own fault , too . 
after all it is the humans that created in the evil machines in the first place . 
back in 1984 , when the cold war was still in full effect , the film must have been seen as a very apt metaphor for nuclear war ( another obsession of cameron's ) . 
these days , one can read a criticism of machine-like behavior in humans . 
true , humanizing touches are put into paul winfield's and lance henriksen's detective characters , but the terminator is also able to move through the city undetected . 
cameron also draw parallels between the mechanical efficiency between the terminator and reese when they first arrive in 1984 la . 
from a technical standpoint the terminator is very well done . 
arnold schwarzenegger is a perfect antagonist--unstoppable , merciless , obdurate . 
we are not meant to empathize with this ultimate killing machine as we are in some of schwarzenegger's later works ( eg , commando ) , but fear him . 
cameron and hurd's script basically depicts a one hour and forty-five minute chase , taking a few moments here and there to explain time travel and develop the romantic subplot . 
while we do see the hackneyed dialogue cameron is now so well known for , there is also considerable suspense especially for the first time viewer who may be unsure of kyle reese's intentions . 
cameron directs the film at a rapid , kinetic pace . 
either the camera is moving or something within the frame is moving--usually both occurs . 
the violence is not particularly graphic ( temple of doom's heart-pull scene outgrosses the terminator's ) , but it is brutally staged making it that much more effective . 
for a low budget film , the terminator's special effects and art direction ( especially in 2029 la ) are remarkably well done . 
special mention should be made of the stop motion effects work at the end of the film depicting the terminator endoskeleton . 
it is some of the best stop motion i have ever seen . 
one thing that doesn't hold up after all the years , however , is linda hamilton's hairdo . 
it might surprise some to know that joel and ethan coen , who have brought such unabated lunacy to our movie screens as " raising arizona " and " the hudsucker proxy , " made their feature film debut with " blood simple , " a grim and often gruesome tale of revenge , murder , and literally fatal misconceptions in rural texas . 
it bears some resemblance , story-wise , to the coens' recent " fargo , " but even the darkly satirical humor and the enjoyably quirky characterizations that characterized that film are scarce here ; " blood simple " is pretty much cold and brutal from beginning to end . 
the premise of " blood simple " is really just a slight variation on the standard love-triangle/revenge scheme : sleazy bar owner julian marty ( dan hedaya ) hires a shifty private detective ( m . 
emmet walsh ) to kill his wife abby ( frances mcdormand ) and her illicit lover ray ( john getz ) . 
things start to go haywire when walsh decides instead to fake the murder with photographic trickery but , upon collecting the money , becomes uncertain as to whether or not marty is capable of keeping his mouth shut about the scheme . 
to reveal any more details of the story would be to give away too much , but what ensues is a series of bloody ( and i do mean bloody ) confrontations , each triggered by one or more characters misunderstanding what is actually happening . 
every act of violence or deception in this film makes sense when seen through the perpetrator's eyes , but we , the audience , are made privy to the " big picture " and thus can recognize that each misdeed is somehow either unnecessary or directed at the wrong person . 
this aspect of the story , along with the intense atmosphere of repulsion and brutality - one gets the sense that if guns and , in one case , shovels , were not available , some of these characters would claw each other to death - are the most effective components of the film . 
the coens might have done well to title the film " fear and loathing in texas . " 
some have labeled " blood simple as a modern-day noir , but , while i am not an expert on either genre , it seems more like a horror movie than anything else . 
the coens seem much more interested in the plot twists and the atmosphere of confusion and paranoia than they do in the characters , and the final sequence is nothing more than a showdown between the one ( relatively ) innocent character and the only one of the murderers left alive . 
that said , " blood simple " is a very good horror movie ; the fear and suspense here are genuine . 
the coens also add plenty of quirky touches that nudge the weirdness meter upwards , such as when a character enters an empty room and accidentally steps on a gun , discharging it as it skitters across the floor , or when a murder attempt unfolds in a way such that abby mistakes her attacker for another character who has in fact been killed earlier in the film . 
that said , " blood simple " is not exactly flawless . 
for one thing , the motivations for the killings are still a little thin at times ; i can understand that the characters had tracks to cover ( or at least thought they did ) , but i found it a little hard to accept that all of them would so quickly resort to murder . 
and although they at least didn ? t have anyone get hacked to death with a knife , the coens also aren't quite immune to horror cliches ; they indulge in a prolonged dead-guy-seems-to-have-come-back-to-life-but-then-we-find-out-it's-only-a-dream scene that had me rolling my eyes . 
the film also ends so quickly after the final confrontation that i found myself wondering if they had simply run out of film . 
 " blood simple " is not quite the masterpiece of neo-noir that many seem to think it is , but it's a decent movie and it showcases the coens' ability to handle suspense and violence in a visceral but non-exploitative manner . 
i would firmly recommend it to all " coen-heads " as well as anyone looking for something original in a thriller . 
kirk douglas is one of those rare american actors who can say more with a simple glance than most can say with pages of dialogue . 
all he has to do is look at someone with a raised eyebrow , and you instantly know what he's thinking . 
 " detective story " features one of kirk douglas's finest performances . 
he stars as a new york detective that has his whole world fall apart in one night . 
the film is based on a play , and this is quite evident , as most of the movie takes place in the one-room flat that the detective's work in . 
the film opens with the douglas character getting ready to go home to his wife , but through a series of events , he never quite makes it there . 
the bulk of the movie follows the case of a man named schneider , a surgeon who routinely performs abortions with a high fatality rate . 
however , this schneider character has a connection in the past of douglas's wife ; a connection douglas himself is not aware of . 
many secrets are revealed in the last half hour of this film . 
secrets i would not dream of giving away . 
with a name like " detective story " , one would assume the film would resemble an episode of " nypd blue " , but it doesn't quite work out that way . 
however , we do see douglas at work on a few other cases throughout the running time . 
lee grant ( virtually unrecognizable ) plays a meek jewish woman arrested for shoplifting . 
her scenes with bendix , another detective , provide the movie with a few laughs . 
the performances all around are fantastic . 
douglas may be the leader of this ensemble , but he's not the center of attention all the time . 
we get to catch a glimpse into other cases and other detectives working on those cases . 
which brings me back to douglas . 
he has a really emotional scene towards the end of the picture that really makes you feel for him . 
we can see that this is a man who has spent his whole life trying to eliminate crime , but has finally realized that what he's really done is gotten back at his criminal father . 
how he handles coming to terms with this is something really worth seeing . 
kirk douglas is the kind of actor we don't seem to see to much of these days : he's a tough guy , but the human elements are never hidden too deeply underneath that gruff exterior . 
 " a man is not a man without eight taels of gold . " 
starring sammo hung , sylvia chang ; directed by mabel cheung ; written by cheung and alex law ; cinematography by bill wong 
eight taels of gold begins as a fish out of water story and at some point becomes a love story involving two people whose past choices prevent the fruition of their love . 
neither aspect of the movie is entirely successful , but both are good enough . 
and along the way there is one perfect scene , which is one more than you find in most films . 
slim ( played by portly sammo hung , better known as a star and director of hong kong action movies ) is a chinese immigrant who drives a yellow cab in new york . 
when the movie opens , we see him shouting obscenities at another taxi driver . 
he does not seem particularly out of place . 
in fact , he is about to return to visit his home in rural china for the first time in sixteen years , spending most of his life savings in the process , and it is there that he will become the proverbial fish out of water , as he realizes that you can never go home . 
he brings with him some statue of liberty cigarette lighters , cheap sunglasses , and lobsters ( which have to be large , to prove they're american ) --the tokens of his success . 
he also wears a gold chain and a gold watch , because without eight taels of gold , a man is not a man ( my dictionary tells me that taels are a unit of weight used in the far east , and i assume the phrase is a chinese proverb ) . 
he loses most of this stuff--except the gold--when his van crashes into a river and he has to hitch a ride , so to speak , on a raft along the river which runs past his parents' village . 
when he arrives unannounced , he almost induces cardiac arrest in his father . 
all of this has the makings of a routine comedy , and the movie has its amusing moments , as when the villagers take turns giving slim gifts during a celebration of his homecoming , and they all give him birds , so by evening's end he is surrounded by turkeys , ducks , geese and other sundry fowl . 
but eight taels is not a comedy--it is a sad , sweet story about the choices people make , and how they are sometimes irreparable . 
director mabel cheung ( an autumn's tale , the soong sisters ) sees clearly what it is like to have lived half of your life in one country and half in a country on the other side of the world--what it is like to no longer have a place to call home . 
slim does not belong in china , nor does he belong in america , where he can barely speak the language . 
seeing water buffalo in the fields and rafts poled down the river and fireworks exploding gloriously in the sky over a small village , we come to know the world slim left behind , and it seems as if he too is knowing it for the first time , and wishes it felt more like home . 
the condition of the expatriate is eloquently portrayed ; i , being one , was sympathetic . 
on his way to his parent's village , slim hooks up with jenny ( sylvia chang ) , whom he knew when she was a girl nicknamed odds-and-ends , which is what he continues to call her , although she is now a mature , professional , attractive woman , to be married in the spring to an american-chinese man . 
slim and odds-and-ends fall for each other . 
that's predictable . 
the manner in which their ( non- ) romance is played out is not . 
the emotions involved are adult and complex , and the film avoids cheap solutions to their dilemma . 
it's typical , for instance , that the fianc ? in this sort of plot be a colossal jerk , because it makes it easier to empathize with the unrequited lover . 
but here the fianc ? is a decent , ordinary guy , and although slim would like to feel anger , he cannot . 
the fianc ? has done nothing wrong ; the situation is the result of bad luck or bad decisions , take your pick . 
eight taels has its share of flaws ( the early sequences in america and on the plane to china are especially weak ) , but it compensates with insight . 
when odds-and-ends tells slim that her future husband wants to move to san francisco , she notes resignedly , " it's all the same . 
wherever we go , we'll be in chinatown , " and her straightforward statement expresses much . 
there is insight , too , in the understanding of the consequences of slim and odds-and-ends' decisions : he to move to america , she to marry a chinese-american . 
both their choices were perhaps born of impatience , perhaps of a sense that the grass is always greener--and it turns out that both choices were wrong . 
but they cannot undo them ; they must live with what they have done . 
such is life . 
the movie is tender toward these people , but it offers no false comforts . 
everything that is right and true about eight taels comes together in one great scene , which is the culmination of the love story . 
slim and odds-and-ends sit in a secluded spot and talk hesitantly , with the muted pop-pop of fireworks exploding in the night behind them , and it seems the conversation will lead to a kiss . 
the exchange that follows , and what slim then does , is poignant and perfect : with clarity and understatement , we see two people's lives , their heartbreaks and virtues , summed up in a single moment . 
yes , the film is flawed , but moments like that justify most of its inadequacies . 
the summer movie season is always the biggest and brightest season for movies throughout the year . 
we are introduced to blockbuster hits that are usually trashed by critics , loved by the people , and make tons of money at the box office . 
this year , the tradition continues with an update on the universal 1932 classic , the mummy . 
i have always been a sucker for this kind of monster movies , and i always seem to be the only critic who really likes them . 
that tradition continues as well with this fun special effects extravaganza . 
in the mummy , the up and coming brendan fraser stars as the adventurous explorer rick o'connell . 
he teams up with a curious , clumsy librarian named evelyn , played by rachel weisz , to find the mysterious city of the dead , hamunaptra . 
evelyn loves egypt , and would truly like to visit the city that people call a fable . 
rick has claimed he has been to hamunaptra during a battle , and that's why she chose him to lead her there . 
also tagging along on the journey to the city of the dead is evelyn's brother , jonathan , played by john hannah ( sliding doors ) . 
now in hamunaptra , the three uncover " the book of the dead . " 
the curious evelyn unlocks the book , reads from it , and now the body of the ancient egyptian imhotep ( arnold vosloo ) becomes alive and is out to kill the ones who opened and read from the book . 
along with imhotep arising from the dead , the ten curses of egypt become in full effect , launching unbelievable forces against the three and another group who set out to find hamunaptra . 
not only is imhotep furious with those who awoke him , he is also out to restore the life of his girlfriend that lost her life long ago in ancient egypt . 
don't expect huge things out of the mummy , but just expect to have a good time . 
this movie is extremely campy and plays out like an old horror film with beefed up special effects , which may turn off some viewers . 
on the other hand , this type of film is one of my favorites , but that's up to you to decide . 
there is one thing that definitely not campy or corny about the mummy though . 
the state of the art special effects take you into a completely different world . 
we are dazzled by faces rising out of the desert , swarms of beetles and locusts , and even creatures crawling under a human's skin . 
these may have been in other movies before , but not like in the mummy . 
as of now , the mummy holds the title for best special effects of this year , but all this could change when star wars episode 1 : the phantom menace is released into theaters across the country . 
in the past , brendan fraser has played mainly comedic roles . 
when playing " george " in disney's george of the jungle , he was mainly not known by anyone . 
i would say that gods and monsters is the film that gave him a name , and now the mummy will give him a name amongst teens . 
in the mummy , fraser gets to play an action hero , and i liked him in this sort of role over the comedic role , as in the films blast from the past and george of the jungle . 
although brendan fraser is great , rachel weisz gives the best performance among the cast . 
weisz really reminded me of a character from an old , horror film . 
the way she acts , looked , and talked all reminded me of someone not from this time . 
evelyn is probably the only character that was likable , considering that the other characters , like john hannah's , didn't get much personal attention . 
in many films , when different genres are mixed , the mixing usually works , and i like it for the most part . 
in the mummy though , not all of the mixing works . 
there are some scenes that have a lot of potential horror , some with potential comedy , some with potential drama , and some with potential pure action , but the film tries to mix them together too often for the mixing to work . 
the mummy could have gotten an " a " rating from me if it had gone purely with one of these . 
i didn't mind the corny one-liners here and there during action sequences , but it certainly could have done without them . 
the cinematography is amazing in the mummy . 
particularly in one scene depicting ancient egypt , we are taken into a very fun portrayal of egypt , mummies , and the treasures left behind by the ancient egyptians . 
the costume design in the film is also up there with the great cinematography . 
from ancient egyptians outfits to original troops outfits , the costumes are always top notch . 
the bottom line- with the mummy , the summer is off to its usually great start . 
jacques tati's 1953 classic " les vacances de m . hulot " ( also known as " mr . hulot's vacation , " in english ) ought to be the textbook on how to do non ? dialogue comedy in film . 
the characters hardly ever speak to each other directly , and the film operates on the paper ? thin premise that monsieur hulot , played by tati himself , is awkward and clumsy and generally manages to annoy the other guests at the beach resort hotel where he is taking a week's vacation . 
yet the film had me beside myself laughing more consistently than any in recent memory . 
part of the reason the film works so well is the clever setup for the various gags . 
slapstick has often been regarded as an unsophisticated and even crude form of comedy , but i think part of the reason for this is that it often seems forced : you can only see movie characters start running after something and then crash face-first into a pole so many times before you start to wonder what all these poles are doing there in the first place or why these people don't watch where they're going . 
in " les vacances de m . hulot , " the gags build upon each other and often start out relatively low-key . 
in one sequence , for example , hulot is painting the side of his small row boat on the beach when , while his back is turned , the paint can gets caught up in the oncoming waves , washes away , then comes back up on the other side of the boat . 
while crossing over to get the can , hulot steps in the boat and unknowingly cracks it . 
when he actually takes the boat out into the water , it breaks in half , but the two halves flip up against each other , trapping him inside as the bystanders mistake it for a shark fin and panic on the beach ensues . 
tati doesn't waste a single opportunity for humor ; scenes that might have yielded one joke in most comedies are good for at least four or five in this film . 
it has been said that comedy relies on frustrating the audience's expectations , and " les vacances de m . hulot " succeeds brilliantly in that area as well . 
tati accomplishes this largely through a sort of deadpan understatement . 
when hulot goes into a separate room during dinner and starts playing a record at defeaningly loud volume , no fights or shouting matches ensue ; instead , the waiter calmly walks in and shuts off the power in the room , disconnecting the record player and leaving a puzzled hulot sitting in the dark . 
tati also uses running gags to this effect , allowing them to keep running far longer than most comedy directors would ; more often than not , we can see them coming and think , " oh , he's not going to do that again , " but , lo and behold , he does . 
for example , there is a recurring joke in which hulot's noisy , sputtering car engine wakes everyone in the middle of the night as an exterior shot reveals the hotel's lights coming on one by one . 
then this image turns up again in the finale , which i will not give away other than to say that involves a lot more noise in the middle of the night than a car engine could ever produce . 
the ending is one of two elements that really make this a four-star film as opposed to merely an above-average , clever comedy . 
as much as i was laughing during this film , i was thinking to myself occasionally that tati had to top himself at the end to really make this work as a complete viewing experience ; suffice it to say that he did . 
the other important aspect is that the film never seems disdainful of its characters . 
it easily could have turned the tables on hulot and had the other guests exact some kind of revenge on him ; alternatively , it could have portrayed the others as humorless curmudgeons . 
instead , tati seems to regard his characters with cheerful amusement more than anything else and invites the audience to like them , however strange or irritating they might seem . 
 " les vacances de m . hulot " is not subtitled , but the dialogue is sparse and for the most part not terribly essential to the flow of events . 
anyone with a taste for this kind of absurd humor ought to make this film their next rental from the video store . 
note : " les vacances de m . hulot " was not rated by the mpaa . 
it would at most receive a pg rating . 
i had lost all faith in pg-13 movies that are intended for teenagers and adults . 
the last dozen or so that i have seen have all felt incomplete , as if the most crucial scene was deleted in order to obtain a more lucrative rating . 
however , after seeing the creative frequency last week and now the exciting u-571 , my bias is beginning to go away . 
both films are as innocuous for younger viewers as they are intellectual for older viewers . 
even better , i didn't think either one of these films would be any good from first instincts . 
everyone loves surprises . 
u-571 looked like another action film using an actual war as an excuse to shoot torpedoes and bullets . 
this may be true , but the action is so extraordinary that it is clear director/co-writer jonathan mostow completed his ultimate goal ; to blow the audience's socks off . 
set during the early stages of world war 2 when the united states struggled to break the codes of the technologically advanced german u-boats , u-571 follows a small crew of american men who swipe the typewriter necessary to solve the enigma from an enemy ship . 
there's only one problem : the american ship they came from and hoped to return to has been shot down stranding the men on a german submarine known as ( you guessed it ) u-571 . 
it is now up to the mostly young and inexperienced sailors , led by an interim captain named tyler ( matthew mcconaughey ) , to return the typewriter to america without getting sunk by far superior german ships . 
the film starts off very slowly with a somewhat weak opening action sequence and another uneventful half an hour to introduce several of the sailors ( most of whom die when the mission goes awry or just inexplicably disappear ) . 
once the crew gets on the u-boat , the movie shifts to another level and never leaves this high energy level until the ending credits roll down . 
as soon as the action starts , it does not stop and luckily , because it is so exciting , i didn't want it to stop . 
this is not a movie for those wanting to avoid loud noises , from the wonderful , heart-pounding score to the constant yelling of panicking men , make sure you see this at a theater with surround-sound ? otherwise , do not see it all . 
the best parts of u-571 are when tyler is forced to make impromptu decisions on how to escape seemingly impossible situations . 
throughout the movie , several morals or characters are introduced to make tyler's job as stressful as possible . 
germans gun down their own men , tyler's mentor captain dahlgren warns him that a captain has to be prepared to sacrifice even the most beloved soldiers for a victory , another sailor ( erik palladino ) threatens mutiny . 
all of these examples , and several others , increase the chaotic atmosphere and the importance of tyler's every move . 
they also make u-571 one of the most exhilarating movies i have seen in a while . 
the 1990s produced two brilliant science fiction films . 
one was _gattaca_ . 
the other was _the thirteenth floor_ . 
just as _gattaca_ was overshadowed by the mighty _titanic_ , _the thirteenth floor_ was relegated to obscurity by _the matrix_ . 
however , _the thirteeth floor_ , though it deals with similar themes , is a much better movie than the frenetic , childish and improbable _matrix_ . 
a cutting edge computer scientist , hannon fuller ( played by the charming armin mueller-stahl ) , is murdered . 
his associate , douglas hall , ( craig bierko ) apparently framed and suspected by the police , enters into the simulated world they have created in order to unravel the mystery . 
along the way a beautiful blonde ( gretchen mol ) , more bodies , and a deepening mystery about simulated worlds complicate the picture . 
_the thirteenth floor_ unfolds slowly and telegraphs its punches , choosing to elicit the more complex emotional response of empathy and anticipation rather than the cheap one of mere surprise . 
the result is a movie that is a failure from two conventional points of view . 
first , its plot revelations can be foreseen if one has carefully followed its complex storyline . 
second and more seriously , it demands that its audience think and feel . 
no wonder it fell through the cracks . 
done in film noir style as a murder mystery , this is a relatively deep movie that functions on several levels . 
many audiences will simply be bewildered by it , rather than engaged , which is a shame , because this movie amply repays a little emotional and intellectual investment . 
i recommend a second viewing simply to get the flavor of the frequent ironic foreshadowing in the opening parts of the movie . 
despite its philosophical challenges , _the thirteenth floor_ derives its emotional force from the love story between jane fuller ( mol ) and douglas hall ( bierko ) , as well as the close friendship between douglas hall and hannon fuller . 
in that sense it is more akin to _gattaca_ than _the matrix_ , which , for all of its cute philosophical byplay , is an adolescent movie with no emotional depth whatsoever . 
the moment when jane fuller confesses her love for douglas hall is at once satisfying , wrenching and intellectually challenging . 
in its final moments the film even takes on itself , when david , jane's husband , who has come to enjoy killing , accuses her of being the sick one . 
although there is a victory for the leading characters , this resolution suggests a disturbing element of fantasy in jane , and thus a deep-seated character flaw . 
in fact , hannon fuller's activities in the simulated world , the behavior of jane's husband , and the effects of entering the simulation on douglas hall all hint at similar issues with those characters . 
this is not a film of good people beset from without by great evil . 
the tragedy is not in their stars , but in themselves . 
the major actors , all of whom are required to play two or even three roles , perform extremely well . 
bierko , who will be familiar as the psycho from _the long kiss goodnight_ , is outstanding . 
d'onofrio as whitney , who plays a pivotal role in support , also turns in a good performance . 
the lovely gretchen mol , whose elegance , integrity , and determination suggest bergman in _casablanca_ , does a wonderful job . 
her voice , however , lacks the necessary weight at times . 
this could be because she was given the worst lines in a movie whose major weakness is the script . 
some minor flaws , hairline cracks in fine porcelain , appear in places . 
there are one or two instances of jerky editing . 
the script takes the edge off the film's climaxes . 
the atmosphere becomes too claustrophobic at times ( yet , there is a clue there too ) . 
one wonders if even after two decades , _blade runner_ is still casting its long shadow over sci-fi films . 
one can see a group of suits in their suite , waving their hands imperiously at directors like the emperor in _amadeus_ : " make it more like_blade runner_ , you know , dark and rainy . " 
_the thirteen floor_ is that rare exception among hollywood movies : a , rich , emotionally satisfying , intelligent sci-fi movie . 
and yet , ultimately , it proves the suits right . 
for when good sci-fi is made , where is the sf community turning out in droves to see it ? 
if we don't support great sf , who will ? 
finding the courage to face life full-on is a difficult task . 
summoning up the audacity to fall in love is a harder job . 
if you're a total jerk like melvin udall is , the odds are even more against you . 
melvin ( jack nicholson ) is a successful romance author who is just the opposite of what you would expect someone in that profession to be . 
a solitary man hidden away in his new york apartment with no human interaction and not even a hint of ever having been in a passionate relationship , he avoids the outside world as much as possible . 
his obsessive-compulsive disorder rules his life as he uses several different bars of soap to wash his hands and refuses to step on a crack on the sidewalk . 
 ( there's a great scene when he has to cross a floor made of mosaic tiles -- _very_small_ mosaic tiles . ) 
melvin has some great lines . 
when his publisher's receptionist asks him how he writes women so well in his books , he responds " i think of men and i take away reason and accountability . " 
don't get him wrong , he's not merely a misogynist . 
setting his sights higher than that , he's also a homophobe , racist , anti-semite , xenophobe , animal-hater and intensely dislikes people who talk in metaphors . 
when we first meet him , he's busy dumping a neighbor's dog down the garbage chute . 
he's an equal opportunity bigot . 
he does venture outside his apartment every day to eat breakfast at a local cafe . 
melvin is such a grouchy curmudgeon that waitress carol connelly ( helen hunt ) is the only one willing to wait on him . 
and she's none too happy about it . 
when carol doesn't show up for work , melvin's routine is shot and he's determined to do something about it . 
tracking down her address , he shows up at her place begging her to come back to work so that he can eat breakfast . 
the fact that she's a poor single mother caring for a chronically ill son doesn't appear to phase him , he wants his food . 
much more upsetting is that his gay artist neighbor simon bishop ( greg kinnear ) is brutally attacked during a robbery . 
this doesn't upset melvin much ( " don't worry , you'll be back on your knees in no time " ) but when he is bullied into taking care of simon's dog , his life is turned topsy-turvey . 
melvin is sequestered because he's afraid of what's out there on the other side of his apartment door . 
he has to make sure it's ritualistically locked three times to keep the world on its proper side . 
when he brings the dog home he reluctantly grows fond of it , talking to it and taking it everywhere he goes . 
this little crack in his emotional armor opens him up . 
hiding behind his need for carol to return to work so she can serve him , he pays for a specialist to treat her son . 
he even develops a friendship with simon . 
all three people are heavily damaged . 
melvin has retreated from life in his apartment . 
carol has devoted herself to her son , convinced that she has to give up her life for him . 
simon is estranged from his parents and his friends disappear when he is hospitalized and his money runs out . 
a more unlikely trio to form relationships , you'd rarely see . 
and in the midst of it all , there are some wonderful moments . 
melvin is hilarious in his grouchiness and touching as he attempts to be nice . 
 " you make me want to be a better man , " he tells her . 
one of the best aspects is that even as he opens up , he is still a curmudgeon . 
carol , afraid that his monetary contribution to the wellness of her son hides a hidden agenda rushes over to his apartment in the rain to explain in no uncertain terms that she will never sleep with him . 
it only takes her a second to realize that she is delivering that statement while looking as if she just left a wet t-shirt contest . 
there's hardly anything left to say about jack nicholson . 
i don't remember ever seeing him in anything less than a stellar performance and his over-the-edge melvin is no disappointment . 
nicholson may be the best actor working today . 
hunt does a commendable job matching nicholson's energy . 
she isn't afraid to be seen as something less than a babe and her portrayal of exhausted run-down carol struggling with seemingly overwhelming obligations is top-notch . 
their on-screen chemistry is a bit odd . 
each does a wonderful job with the character , but together , there's something a little off . 
it's a minor problem : they do work well together , but that missing element is what prevents this from being a four-star film . 
director james l . brooks ( " terms of endearment " , " broadcast news " ) has a movie that is picking up awards by the bucketsful ( nominees for all the top golden globes , winners from the national board of review , inevitable oscars ) and has a winner on his hands . 
 " as good as it gets " isn't exactly the quality that the title says , but it's pretty darn close . 
 ( michael redman has written this column for over 22 years and as soon as he finishes this one , he's off to an annual 12 night celebration typically held in freezing weather during a snowstorm . 
this year it's in the sixties and raining . 
that wacky el nino . ) 
bruce willis stars as malcolm , an award winning child psychologist who discovers one night that one of his former patients is still suffering from inner demons . 
the now grown man breaks into his apartment while he and his wife ( olivia williams from rushmore ) are celebrating his award , shoots malcolm in the stomach , then takes his own life . 
almost nine months later , malcolm discovers cole ( haley joel osment , in a brilliant performance ) , another young man afflicted with the same turmoil as his former patient . 
he takes on the child's case in the hope of redeeming himself for botching up the previous one , alienating his wife in the process . 
he soon discovers that they boy can see and speak to the dead , and his life becomes forever turned upside down . 
although the first hour is very slow , the sixth sense turns out to be a very powerful and moving film . 
i was expecting this film to be mercury rising 2 , but was astonished to discover an extremely well plotted out little thriller with an outstandingly satisfying ending . 
you'll find yourself mentally retracing your steps through the film to see if you actually saw what you think you did once the credits roll . 
i must give m . night shyamalan a lot of credit for a brilliantly written screenplay . 
the cast should also be given a lot of credit for making the movie as solid as it is . 
a lesser cast could have made this film a joke . 
bruce willis portrays his character perfectly , balancing his need to help cole and his agony over his strained relationship with his wife skillfully . 
haley joel osment shines as nine year old cole , showing patience in his character that few young actors these days can pull off . 
toni collette , looking markedly different from her pathetic character in muriel's wedding , gives a strong performance as cole's mother , who is trying to cope with both her son's " illness " and the passing of her mother . 
finally , olivia williams deftly portrays a woman having to struggle with a husband who's not around and flirtations with a co-worker that could lead to a begrudgingly accepted end . 
it's a shame that they show cole's abilities in the trailer , because the movie takes close to forty minutes to get around to doing the same , so we already know what's going on before most of the rest of the cast does . 
in retrospect though , the forty minute set-up is essential to enjoying the end of the film , so i have fewer complaints now then i did while i was watching the film . 
i'm glad that the run of teen-styled horror films has passed and filmmakers are starting to make more adult fare . 
films like this , the similarly themed stir of echoes , and countless others to be released later in the year should make for a pretty entertaining close to 1999 . 
[pg-13] 
i suppose an argument could be made that toy story is one of those films that didn't need a sequel . 
beloved by kids and their parents , respected equally by mainstream america and geekish movie buffs , that first movie remains a landmark of recent history , the one that burst open the possibilities of computer animation and demonstrated through wild invention and giddy chutzpah just how complacent the disney animation machine had become in cranking out fluffy razzle-dazzle entertainment full of formula storytelling and banal songwriting . 
if disney was embarrassed at being beaten at its own game ( toy story was a smash hit of unexpected proportions , and one that caught the merchandising end of the business unaware as demand for action figures far outstripped supply ) , it didn't show , and as distributor and part-owner of the property , at least it had a piece of the action . 
toy story 2 was greenlighted as a direct-to-video project , disney's standard tactic for milking a few more bucks out of hot franchises without expending the effort of developing a proper feature film . 
as someone who doesn't believe sequels are necessarily a bad thing ( granted , they usually are a bad thing , but that's because they're made for the wrong reasons ) , i had to wonder what in the world they were thinking . 
fortunately , disney claimed to have been so knocked-out by early animation tests that they let pixar go full-speed ahead with a theatrical sequel . 
lucky thing , too -- like the first movie , this one is a joy to behold on the big screen , and technically , it improves on its predecessor on just about every level . 
 ( from a business standpoint , the end credits show that the new creations are copyrighted by pixar , while the previous film's elements are shared between pixar and disney , a sign of the production house's new cachet in hollywood . ) 
visually , the main shortcoming of this fully computer-generated movie is that human figures are still rendered relatively poorly , making them look a little creepy . 
fortunately , that eerie unreality fits in perfectly with the perspective of the movie , where the secret world of toys is more immediate , and arguably more attractive , than the world of the humans who surround them . 
as before , the story is predicated on the premise that the toys scattered around the bedroom of a little boy named andy -- and , indeed , all the toys scattered around the bedrooms of all little children -- come to life in the child's absence . 
while the toys scamper about and chatter endlessly among themselves , the real joy of a toy's life is to mean something to its owner . 
one of the subjects of this new film is the sadness of toys that have been broken or abandoned , left on a shelf to gather dust , and another is the sort of emotional limbo inhabited by toys that are mere prizes of covetous collectors . 
most often , those toys are packed away in dark spaces , safe from sunlight and humidity , and often they're not even removed from their packaging . 
imagine what a chip that would put on your shoulder , and you'll understand the attitudes of the collector's items that show up in this movie . 
sheriff woody ( voiced by a note-perfect tom hanks ) , the longtime favorite among andy's toys who was challenged in the previous go-round by the arrival of flashy-new-thing action figure buzz lightyear ( tim allen ) , suffers an injury early in the film , when andy tugs too hard on his arm and pulls a seam apart , revealing the stuffing inside . 
this accident catalyzes some uneasieness among the toys , who know too well that a broken toy is often a forgotten toy , and a forgotten toy is one that loses its reason for existence . 
those anxieties are crystallized when andy's mom tears through his living room , collecting old toys for a yard sale . 
and there's an ironic twist to the tale , as woody winds up being stolen by an avid toy collector who needs exactly that quaint cowboy figure to complete a set that he hopes to sell to a japanese toy museum for a sizable sum . 
the rest of andy's toys , who owe him quite a debt , resolve to rescue him . 
that this film manages to turn a box marked " 25 cents " into a symbol of doom , or to make its screed against the retention of collectible toys by wrongheaded profiteers fuel for a metaphysical dilemma , is a testament to its skill at metaphor , seamlessly translating the hopes and fears of our real world into that of the toys . 
operating on this level of abstraction , toy story 2 tackles some mighty heavy issues without once preaching or veering into pretentiousness . 
 ( the worst i can say is that randy newman seems to have reserved his sappiest lyric in years for sarah mclachlan , who stops the movie cold by singing it at just about the halfway mark . ) 
sometimes i think toy story 2 tries too hard . 
there's somewhat less of the seat-of-the-pants loopiness that energized the first film , allowing it to surprise and excite on a near-constant basis , and more philosophizing about toys , collectors , the nature of happiness and the meaning of life . 
while that leads to fewer bellylaughs , it does make way for more elaborate humor and an uncommonly ambitious reflexivity that asks the toys to consider their own status as commodities that move in and out of fashion . 
 ( just don't ask why andy's favorite toy is based on a tv series that was canceled in 1957 . ) 
where else in mainstream movies do you get such an awesome moment as the one where buzz arrives at al's toy barn to find it stocked to the gills with his doppelgangers , buzz lightyear action figures ? 
forget the self-congratulatory science fiction of the matrix -- this is a fundamental mind-bender for buzz , and the audience shares his humility and wonderment at the sight . 
here , as in the roughly concurrent scene where woody watches tapes of the howdy doodyish children's tv show that originated his character , we see our protagonists come face-to-face with god . 
in sly ways , then , toy story 2 can be read as a film about mortality , a metaphorical consideration of aging and death . 
significantly , the film's very first sequence concludes with a grim shocker that had our opening-night crowd in a near-uproar . 
and toward the end , when buzz and woody speculate on how long they have before andy grows up and discards his old toys , one of them observes , with an alacrity both inspirational and heartbreaking , that it will be fun while it lasts . 
so toy story 2 joins the tradition of children's stories , largely neglected of late , that say something real about the inevitable joys and tragedies of existence . 
what's really striking is that both toy story films ( and , to a lesser degree , pixar's a bug's life ) are kids' movies with wit and sophistication to shame most of their ostensibly adult counterparts , not to mention whatever piece of tot-friendly eye-candy is due from the disney dream factory any given summer . 
it puts one in mind of the glory days of chuck jones and the old gang at warner bros . animation . 
i'm not sure lasseter and his pals at pixar will ever operate at quite that level of purely visual invention -- they love traditional narrative too much -- but , boy , it makes me wonder what they might come up with next . 
-------------------------------------------------------------- directed by john lasseter , colin brady , ash brannon , and lee unkrich written by lasseter , brannon , peter docter , andrew stanton , rita hsaio , doug chamberlain , and chris webb cinematography by sharon calahan starring ( voices ) tom hanks , tim allen , and joan cusack usa , 1999 
theatrical aspect ratio : 1 . 85 : 1 -------------------------------------------------------------- 
tone alone cannot sustain a film , but it can go a long way . 
if i can find myself lost in the time and place of a story , it scores immediate style points . 
when that tone is backed up by an outstanding story and great acting , the effect can be described best by an adjective i do not use lightly : " literary . " 
what's eating gilbert grape ? 
is such a film . 
it's a rich , memorable and stunningly acted story of desire colliding with responsibility , staged in a manner which many viewers might find too prosaic , but which insinuated itself into my imagination with its confidence . 
gilbert grape ( johnny depp ) is a young man living in rural endora , iowa , facing incredible responsibilities . 
as the man of the house since his father's suicide , gilbert must support the family by working at the local grocery store . 
he also must watch over his mentally handicapped brother arnie ( leonardo dicaprio ) and help care for his extremely overweight mother ( darlene cates ) . 
gilbert seems destined to spend the rest of his life in the small town until the arrival in endora of becky ( juliette lewis ) , a free spirit passing through with her grandmother when their truck breaks down . 
as he spends time with becky , gilbert begins to think about all the things he is missing . 
slowly his resentment builds , until he realizes that he can no longer live his entire life for other people . 
director lasse hallstrom ( my life as a dog ) and legendary cinematographer sven nykvist create a magnificent visual backdrop for peter hedges' screenplay , based on his own novel . 
endora is a town on the edge of the world represented by the giant foodmart , a tiny insular community where everyone knows everyone else . 
the midwestern sunsets and sprawling fields are beautifully photographed , and the atmosphere of the town is intensely real . 
minor characters , like crispin glover as the town's mortician , are vividly realized , and there are echoes of the last picture show in mary steenburgen's desperately unhappy housewife . 
one of the most perfectly realized scenes focuses on the grand opening of a burger franchise , attended by the entire town and accompanied by the off-key high school band . 
not a single note in the depiction of endora rang false . 
the same can be said of the character of gilbert . 
it's testimony to the precision involved in his creation that he came together completely with one perfectly placed line , when becky responds to gilbert's description of his father with , " i knew someone like that once . " 
gilbert is a man harboring an ever-growing bitterness about where he finds himself in life , a bitterness which reveals itself in moments of surprising cruelty . 
in one scene , he allows local children to look at his mother through their window , displaying her like a side show attraction . 
his entire life seems to be mocked by arnie's repeated chants of , " we're not going anywhere , " but instead of expressing his dissatisfaction he lets his anger simmer , and it becomes clear that he is following in his father's footsteps in this regard . 
johnny depp expertly demonstrates the tension central to gilbert by playing everything below the surface , but he never gives in to one-dimensional blankness or simply regurgitates his naif roles in benny & joon and edward scissorhands . 
depp's performance is overshadowed , however , by leonardo dicaprio's astonishing oscar-nominated supporting work as arnie . 
he puts to shame such big name actors as john malkovich and dustin hoffman , whose mentally challenged characters never seemed completely real . 
dicaprio is perfect to the last twitch and squeal , and anyone who has ever spent time with mentally challenged kids will be hard-pressed to spot a flaw . 
darlene cates , a first-time actor , brings real pain to her scenes as gilbert's tortured mother , and laura harrington and mary kate schellhardt are solid as gilbert's sisters . 
only juliette lewis doesn't quite click , playing a critical role with her now familiar dopey drone and too little genuine spark . 
gilbert grape does seem to drift into its conclusion , but it never lost me . 
thanks to a lovingly created setting and a marvelous cast , this 1993 release proves well worth the wait . 
hollywood has a . 750 
batting average with elmore leonard adaptations . 
last year's touch was ill-conceived and just plain odd but get shorty , jackie brown and now out of sight all were highly entertaining movies . 
steven soderburgh , master of sex , lies and videotape , now adds crime to his repertoire in this tale of bank robbery , prison , double-crossing , uncut diamonds and , oh yeah , true love . 
george clooney is the protagonist , a risky choice after such duds as batman and robin and the peacemaker , but for once i didn't want to slap the taste out of his mouth . 
he plays his role in out of sight as the suave cary grant-type perfected in hitchcock movies , the kind of guy to whom crime is just a profession like any other . 
nowhere present is clooney's usual ain't-i-sexy sneer -- there's just enough leftover lightheartedness to fit in with the leonard style . 
clooney is definitely a perfect successor to john travolta in get shorty . 
clooney plays a man who's robbed about 200 banks without ever using a gun . 
in the opening scene , he walks into one bank and robs it not only with ease but with charm . 
of course , he gets caught , so it's not all good . 
it's while doing time in a florida prison that clooney learns of one rich inmate's ( albert brooks in a frightful bald wig ) collection of diamonds in detroit . 
clooney and cohort ving rhames plan the score , while protection artist and fight promoter don cheadle begins rival plans . 
meanwhile , there's jennifer lopez . 
unintentionally funny in selena and intentionally funny in anaconda , she's finally graduated to a worthy role as the u . s . marshal who happens to be driving up to the jail on the night clooney escapes . 
rhames is waiting to give him a ride in a stolen car , and lopez makes it a threesome , her hostage ass locked in a trunk with clooney . 
he's covered in dirt and has a gun to her neck , and it's a little cramped in there , but they manage to make a love connection anyway , probably because it's a movie . 
the relationship between clooney and lopez is at the heart of the movie , and one of the details that elevates it beyond your normal noir-ish crime story . 
the leonard movies are more obsessed with dialogue than crime , and this is no exception . 
although they're not really germane to the plot , lopez's relationship with her father ( dennis farina of get shorty ) , rhames' relationship with his christian sister ( you could call her sister christian ) and a pop-in cameo by michael keaton all lend extra class to a movie already full of it . 
out of sight spans at least three years but has a non-linear structure , focusing on the jailbreak / brooks score and flashing back to earlier times . 
this is a movie with a brain , as smooth and calculated as the clooney and lopez characters themselves . 
the entire cast does the material justice -- clooney and lopez coming into their own , and rhames and cheadle cementing their positions as two of my favorites . 
here's hoping future leonard adaptations continue to carry the torch . 
serving america for almost 1/20th of a century ! 
synopsis : rumored to be about a true person , the story of mulan has circulated in oral tradition for over a thousand years , and has inspired operas , literature , and even coinage . 
 ( since 1984 , china has been issuing annual gold and silver coin sets commemorating famous historical figures ; the 1992 set includes mulan . ) 
in the ballad of mulan ( written in the 5th or 6th century ) , an imperial edict by the khan ( emperor ) orders men from each family to be drafted into the army to defend china . 
a girl's parents hear sighing , and think that their daughter mulan ( the name means magnolia ) is dreaming of boys , but actually she's dreading what horrors might befall her old infirm father if he were to be drafted off to battle . 
mulan bravely runs away , masquerading as a boy , to serve in the army instead of her father . 
ten thousand miles and twelve years of brutal war later , the army finally returns in triumph . 
the emperor wants to reward mulan's valor with a prestigious position in government , but she declines , accepts a horse , and returns home quietly to don her true clothes . 
mulan's old army buddies visit and get the shock of their lives when they find out that mulan is actually a woman . 
the disney animated feature mulan is similar to the ballad story , only it adds a modern character for comic relief : mushu the dragon ( eddie murphy ) . 
in disney's mulan , when a fierce army of invading huns threatens to overrun peaceful china the emperor orders one man from each family to be conscripted into the army . 
old mr . fa ( soon-tek oh ) is handicapped and has no son ; he has only his spirited young daughter mulan ( ming-na wen ) . 
fearing for her father's life , the courageous mulan secretly cuts her hair , disguises herself as a man , and sneaks off to serve in the army in her father's stead . 
meanwhile mushu , the disgraced and demoted guardian dragon of the fa family , has been reduced to the size of a squirrel and the status of incense burner . 
 ( his only duty is to ring a gong . ) 
mushu hits upon a plan to redeem himself and regain his guardian status by helping the disguised mulan to become a macho male warrior hero . 
with the help of mushu , a horse , and a lucky cricket , can army recruit mulan save china and bring honor to the fa family ? 
opinion : east meets west . 
i know a chef in santa fe that does this sort of magic ; he combines asian culinary influences from the west coast with latin american from down south and european from the atlantic to concoct new creations that hit just the right combination of flavors . 
from their state of the art animation studio in orlando , disney is hoping to work the same kind of east/west magic with mulan . 
i mean , what would you say if i told you that a new movie featured tang dynasty art , with donny osmond singing , ming-na wen acting , and eddie murphy playing a chinese dragon that makes pop references to batman and the reverend jessie jackson ? 
yet this is the case in the disney's re-interpretation of the familiar chinese classic . 
the end result is spectacular ; mulan is one of disney's best movies ever . 
personally , i'm also glad to see the detestable american stereotype of the weak-willed subservient asian woman take a beating : mulan is portrayed as a normal , if spirited , compassionate gal capable of taking the initiative . 
mulan is more than just eastern graphics and faces combined with westernized pop and disney . 
kids of any age will like the family themes , and will understand the good guys versus bad guys thing . 
and adolescent and preteen girls can appreciate the romance factor , while the boys admire the battles . 
and adults can admire those male/female nuances as well as the interplay between traditional notions of family , honor , and duty with industrial age notions of romantic love , gumption , and questioning . 
but even the tiniest details reveal quality . 
the movie's art supervisors spent three weeks in china researching the right look : negative spaces , positive detail , period clothing , and graphic designs typical of the time and place . 
computers were used for crowd scenes of up to 30 , 000 people , and a special program called 'attila' was used for a spectacular sequence involving 2000 attacking huns on horseback . 
and singers osmond and salonga are at the top of their game . 
balance is crucial . 
a movie about a chuckling lone dragon played by eddie murphy might not be disney's cup of tea , but if you use the character as a comic sidekick to balance a determined and spirited heroine , then , pow ! 
the dream team . 
by the same token , a tale about a girl in the army might be a sober exercise in filial piety by itself , but toss the dragon in there and you've got enough wahoo individualism for a light hearted disney romp . 
it's rare that a movie can seamlessly combine elements from both east and west , old and young , male and female into a cohesive and entertaining whole , but mulan hits the universal bullseye . 
it's movie for any age , creed , gender , or color . 
if you've ever perused my college comedy diary " another year in the life of a nerd " ( i never run out of cheap plugs ) , you know i didn't get along with my first-semester roommate too well . 
in fact , during the three-week period between thanksgiving and christmas break , i said a total of four sentences to him . 
so when i saw in the residence hall cable listings a movie called roommates , i envisioned 90 minutes of conflict between a couple of bickering young adults trapped in a 10 x 13 foot dorm room . 
then i saw that the star of roommates is peter falk . 
scratch that idea . 
but i still say someone should film the story of two college roommates whose relationship is less than ideal . 
of course , in my case it would be a silent picture . 
even without the college element , i still decided to watch roommates because i had absolutely nothing to do , unless you count studying for final exams ( and who does ? ) . 
i'm glad i did . 
peter falk's performance was actually what made the movie . 
and this is a guy i never considered a real actor , more like someone who went around in a trenchcoat solving prescripted mysteries . 
falk pleasantly surprised me here , permanently earning my respect , so all you " columbo " fans who think i live to insult the guy can just falk off . 
falk plays rocky , a 107-year-old polish baker who raises his grandson after both the kid's parents die . 
the movie begins with the mom's death and the son moving in with his grandparents . 
after a couple stops along the son's journey to manhood , roommates progresses to the present day , with the grandson a surgeon and rocky in a condemned house he refuses to leave . 
the surgeon reluctantly offers the only possible solution -- rocky will have to move into his place , the basement of a building rented by a group of chinese students ( " communists ! " ) . 
the movie spans nine more years of rocky's relationship with his grandson , and the trials posed when the grandson meets and falls in love with--gasp--a woman , and starts spending all his time with her . 
so , in his grandson's absence , rocky turns his pursuits to professional boxing , achieveing the world heavyweight title in a climactic fight with apollo creed . . . 
or am i confusing movie plots again ? 
roommates has an almost epic feel to it , covering several generations of a family with one fiesty immigrant who refuses to die . 
death , though , knocks at the door of almost every other major character in the the movie . 
roommates has about as many casualties as the first halloween . 
the number can't be counted on one hand , unless of course you're the victim of some hideous genetic mutation . 
and you can probably guess who says farewell to planet earth at the end of the movie ( no , not duran duran ) . 
i won't come out and say it . 
instead , i'll just sit here and hum " eye of the tiger " until each and every one of you figures it out . 
roommates plays on all the major emotions . 
it knows when to make you laugh and when to make you cry . 
movies that can perfectly mix comedy and drama are always hits with the audience , even though this one bombed at the theaters . 
my point ? 
there are no absolutes . 
or , another possible point , peter falk just isn't such a great box office draw . 
either way , this is still a good movie and you should give it a chance like i did , whether you hate your roommate or not . 
capsule : the director of cure brings a weird and very complex concept to the screen . 
one viewing will not be enough to understand fully the premise of pulse . 
the idea is something about ghosts and the internet . 
the film has an amazing apocalyptic style . 
 , +2 ( -4 to +4 ) 
perhaps the most disturbing ( and disturbed ? ) 
filmmaker in the world is kiyoshi kurosawa . 
his films all seem to have one style , bleak . 
the worlds he creates are terrifying and cold . 
little known in the us to date , his films deliver the kind of horror that so many of our filmmakers promise and are unable to deliver . 
most of his ideas are fresh and at the same time morbid . 
his 1998 film cure , with one of his niftiest ideas , is just now getting a sadly limited release in the us and hopefully enough people will see it that his name will soon be one to conjure with . 
cure is probably his classic . 
last year he released seance , a remake of seance on a wet afternoon . 
that was perhaps a miscalculation inserting supernatural elements into a non-supernatural story . 
pulse is kurosawa back on form . 
taguchi , a young computer expert , is late with his delivery of some important software . 
two co-workers go to his apartment and find it a dismal dark affair in spite of his computer equipment . 
taguchi , acting very strangely , lets his friends look for the missing software . 
meanwhile he slips behind a plastic curtain . 
when he fails to respond to calls his friends follow him behind the curtain and discover he has hanged himself . 
if that was not horror enough the body seems to disappear leaving just a strange dark mildew-like spot on the wall . 
taguchi's computer seems to have been infected with some kind of computer virus . 
people whose computer gets the virus seem superficially to die via suicide . 
but they are not entirely dead . 
their spirits seem to remain present somehow in the real world and on the internet . 
people who get the computer virus are asked if they want to see a ghost . 
if they say yes , they seem to be able to see real time images of the spirits still nearby somehow . 
the computer shows them impossible images of ghosts in their own rooms as seen from cameras that do not exist . 
this is all somehow connected to heaven and hell somehow filling up and overflowing " like a computer disk . " 
instead the dead seem to be staying on earth and inhabiting computer viruses . 
there is some sort of passage between worlds having something to do with doors marked with red tape and strange electronic disturbances on computers . 
leave it to kurosawa to find a new kind of death . 
this is a film that has more weird ideas piled together than lifeforce and somehow kurosawa makes the film all work . 
it may not totally convey his message of isolation and its parallels to death , but whatever it does convey is nightmarish . 
kurosawa , who directs his own screenplay , ties his story into the real world with some familiar and accurate computer discussion . 
frequently the plot is advanced with character hunches being assumed to be fact . 
his plotting is frequently hard to follow and always very strange . 
junichiro hayashi , the cinematographer who recently has been doing all of kurosawa's films , creates a dark , cold , and gloomy tone . 
images are obscured by semi-lighting or are behind plastic curtain . 
scenes are not milked for their horror the way american exploitation films might . 
people are shot with guns but there is little if any blood in evidence . 
seeing black silhouettes on computer screens is not immediately scary . 
kurosawa is not going for and easy visual shock , but a deeper metaphysical dread . 
of any horror filmmaker in the world , kiyoshi kurosawa is the one to watch . 
i rate this metaphysical look at isolation a 7 on the 0 to 10 scale and a +2 on the -4 to +4 scale . 
when i first heard that disney's next animated feature was going to be tarzan , i was almost horrified . 
i was worried that disney was going to make another hercules ( sorry , jerk-ules ) . 
that effort was too overloaded with comedy ( and the hero was too boastful and pompous to be considered a sympathetic hero ) , and , after viewing it to this day , i find it a disgrace for disney animation . 
when i saw the trailers , i was thinking " hmm . . . 
this isn't bad at all . 
this just might have potential . " 
when i bought the soundtrack , i was really quite surprised at how different it sounded from most disney features . 
i have never really heard of phil collins , nor have i heard of mark mancina , so i was wondering , how would these two make this disney flick spin ? 
i was pleasantly surprised : the music is top-notch . 
phil collins' songs are terrific , percussion-heavy pieces of work that seem to break the formula for typical disney songs . 
the score from mark mancina was also neat ; it reminded me a bit of the lion king , but it was more original . 
so , the soundtrack wasn't bad at all , considering it was by two people i am not familiar with . 
this film could be good . . . 
but will it be ? 
when i finally went to see it ( on opening day , as i tend to do with most disney animated features ) , my question was answered , in a complete turnabout of expectations for me : disney's tarzan is surprisingly decent . 
the story starts out with tarzan's parents surviving a shipwreck and finding a home on an island where apes live in peace . 
however , one day , a vicious leopard , sabor , attacks and kills tarzan's parents , leaving him ( at this time , a baby ) alone-until kala of the apes rescues him . 
kala wants to raise the child as her own ( she lost hers previously to sabor ) , but her mate , kerchak is not too sure . 
 " it's not our kind , " he says . 
he agrees , though , to let her take care of little tarzan , but " that doesn't make him my son . " 
tarzan grows up , vowing to be " the best ape ever " , but no matter how hard he tries or what he does ( at the guidance of his hilarious ape friend , terk ) , he just can't convince kerchak that he is one of the apes , even when he defeats sabor in a battle . 
one day , a new animal shows up : humans . 
this is where jane comes into the picture . 
she is on an expedition with her father ( professor porter ) , and a despicable hunter ( clayton ) searching for gorillas . 
tarzan rescues her when she is chased by baboons , and soon they get to know each other . 
even though tarzan falls in love with jane , this causes things to go wrong . 
clayton tricks tarzan into taking him , jane , and porter to see the apes , who are convinced that he has betrayed them . 
worse , clayton has plotted to send the gorillas to london for money . 
will tarzan find out which family he belongs to and save the apes ? 
i'm not gonna tell you , sorry . 
you're gonna have to see for yourself . 
and see it you should ; the animation is , as always , top notch , particularly when tarzan goes soaring through the trees ( read that , skateboarding ) . 
the deep canvas computer generated effect adds an authentic feeling to the jungle which tarzan lives in . 
in fact , it seems similar to the computer imagery/cel animation combination in rival disney animted films , such as fox's anastasia and dreamworks' prince of egypt . 
could it be that disney was actually taking ideas from their rivals ? 
the casting is fairly good . 
tony goldwyn is emotionally believeable as tarzan ( and to my relief , the animators have succeeded in not making him another hercules . 
nicely done ) , and glenn close is wonderful as kala ( she has a beautiful singing voice , too , by the way ) . 
lance henrikson as kerchak somewhat reminds me of robby benson's beast voice , which makes him all the more ferocious and gripping . 
minnie driver had me a little worried at first as the voice of jane . 
i thought she had the most annoying voice in the whole film ( when i first saw the trailers ) , but when i saw the film , i didn't have a problem with her . 
i take back my insult on driver . 
it's nice to hear nigel hawthorne do another voice for a disney animated feature ( he was fflewdurr flamm in disney's most underrated classic , the black cauldron ) ; he is funny and delightful as professor porter . 
on the villiany side of the voices , brian blessed ( the guy who did boss nass in star wars : episode i-the phantom menace ) brings a pompous , and later on vicious , voice to the sinister clayton . 
he might not be the strongest character in the film ( he's just a plain bad guy , nothing else ) , but blessed's vocal work contributes greatly . 
but if there is any voice that i think steals the whole show , it should be rosie o'donnell , who is hilariously funny as terk . 
she also has a fiesty attitude ( " i'm gonna kill ya ! " 
she says , more than once ) . 
i almost sung along with her during one of the film's best moments , where the apes make a mess of the human's camp , via song , er , scatting " shoo-be-doo , da-be-dah " . 
i can see why she wanted to have a rock song for the film , she's a good singer . 
not that she was the only funny character in the film , though . 
wayne knight ( who played stan in space jam ) gives a whimsically funny style to tantor , an elephant who is especially worried about stepping into " un-sanitary " water . 
 ( thankfully , there is no real sound of flatuence-that would have killed the picture ) . 
the songs , as i said before , are decent , mostly sung by collins . 
this sets a new standard for disney animated films because for the first time , the characters do not sing . 
i tolerate musical numbers from characters a lot more than some other guys would , but i found this to be a nice change of pace . 
the story does have elements of comedy in it , but they also load it with strong dramatic touches , which makes this film far better than the unbelieveably uninspired hercules . 
if there is anything disappointing about tarzan , it might be the omission of the 'n sync version of " trashing the camp " from the film . 
i heard it on the soundtrack , and wondered where it was going to be . 
i was upset that it wasn't , because i had thought of taking a few friends of mine who like 'n sync to see tarzan . 
oh , well . . . 
overall , i was enthralled with tarzan . 
i wouldn't hold it high the way i do with mulan or the hunchback of notre dame ( my all-time favorite disney classics ) , but this film deserves a high place among disney's greatest achievements . 
i give a nod to disney for following up their spectacular * * * * * masterpiece , mulan , with this great animated adaption of egar rice burrough's tarzan . 
the opening crawl tells us that the galaxy is in turmoil over the taxation of trade routes , and the greedy trade federation has used it's armada of powerful space battleships to blockade the planet naboo . 
we soon find that the federation plans to invade the planet with an enormous army of warrior robots and force naboo's ruler , the young queen amidala ( natalie portman ) to sign a treaty giving the federation control . 
however , the galactic republic has sent jedi knights qui-gon jinn ( liam neeson ) and obi-wan kenobi ( ewan mcgregor ) as emissaries to the federation in order to negotiate for the ending of the blockade . 
no sooner do they arrive than the federation leaders are instructed via holographic transmission by a mysterious cloaked figure to destroy the jedi , and the first battle begins . 
it seems that for me and thousands of people like me , the love for george lucas's trilogy of star wars movies has only grown over time . 
we're the fans , not the freaks . 
we won't go dressing up like darth vader ( although you have to admit those imperial uniforms are pretty darn cool ) , and we won't incorporate lines from the script in our everyday conversations ( not all the time , anyway ) , but if someone wants to challenge us to a little trivia contest , we're throwing down . 
all right , stop looking at me like that . 
we have been faithfully and patiently waiting . 
waiting for this movie ever since the end credits of return of the jedi started to roll . 
you see , the trilogy is not just a set of movies , but a religion of sorts to we , the faithful disciples , and the phantom menace is tantamount to the second coming of the messiah . 
unfortunately , it is not our savior . 
for weeks beforehand , i was going around telling people that this movie had better be damned good - stupendously good - miraculously good . 
anything less and it'll be the biggest disappointment of the century . 
i didn't want the doomsaying prophecy to come true , really i didn't , but this film nevertheless fails to reach the pinnacles of filmmaking . 
character development is virtually nonexistent . 
with the possible exception of qui-gon , most of the film's characters seem left with nothing to do but go through the motions . 
none seem very affected by their experiences , and few even show any passion at all . 
contrast this with the horribly irritating comic relief we are nearly continuously subjected to in the form of jar jar binks , a creature belonging to a race which lives in underwater cities on naboo , in precarious symbiosis with the land dwellers led by amidala . 
jar jar's life is saved by qui-gon early in the film , and travels with our heroes for the sole reason of making us laugh ( or supposedly so ) . 
his speech mannerisms are so " cute-ified " that i couldn't understand a third of what he was saying , and the slapstick he performed was just distracting . 
his head gets caught in an electronic field , his foot gets caught in the stirrup of some large beast , he describes being in trouble as " deep doo doo , " and even manages to step in some of the same while walking around in mos eisley spaceport . 
therein lies a key difference between this film and one of its predecessors . 
in star wars , we had obi-wan telling us mos eisley was a " wretched hive of scum and villainy . " 
in the phantom menace , we get doo doo . 
the films of the trilogy took me away from my everyday life and immersed me in a story " a long time ago in a galaxy far , far away . . . . " 
this film , on the other hand , constantly reminds me that it's only a movie by including situations and phrases that are so uniquely modern american that they seem incredibly out of place and serve to jerk the viewer from the experience . 
perhaps the most blatant offense occurs during a scene where young anakin skywalker enters into a pod racing competition ( it's kind of like chariot racing with large engines instead of horses ) , and there are a couple of commentators in a press box delivering indy 500-like play by play . 
i liked the pod race ; it was really exciting and ratcheted the tension , but when the heck did lucas think up the idea of putting in the sportscasters ? 
the race would have been even more exciting without the distraction . 
this aspect , coupled with the emphasis on humor simply baffled me . 
i suppose one may say that lucas was trying to appeal to the younger viewer , but would more intelligent scenes and dialog hurt this appeal at all ? 
didn't millions of youngsters still go back to see the original star wars in 1977 over and over again ? 
didn't the action figures still sell like hotcakes ? 
of course they did , and it's only poor judgment that allows the most-eagerly awaited film in history to be marred by pandering to children who would still have enjoyed a film with more appeal for adults . 
one aspect that will appeal broadly , however , is the use of special effects . 
the people at lucas's industrial light and magic , the world's premiere effects house , outdid themselves in providing seamless integration of computer-generated images and real-life footage . 
some of the scenes have to be seen to be believed , especially the shots of a land battle between the federation's robot army and jar jar's countrymen . 
the space battles are also impressive , although improved over past efforts by only subtle margins to the casual observer . 
this , however , is a testament to the work which ilm produced two decades ago and still holds up well today . 
john williams is back , of course , providing a score for the film as only he can . 
his music is pervasive throughout , as rousing and as dramatic as ever , always serving to punctuate scenes noticeably and appropriately . 
since this film is supposed to be the first installment in a nine-episode story ( star wars , the empire strikes back and return of the jedi being episodes four , five and six , respectively ) , the phantom menace has the daunting task of setting up the origins of several characters we know already , in addition to those with whom we unfamiliar . 
as a result , attention to history and characterization was spread a little thin . 
it would have been nice to get more in depth with yoda and obi-wan , for example , but given the fact that there were several new characters to cover , it is understandable that some of the development has been left for the next two films . 
one of the new characters is darth maul , hailed as the new villain with as much hype as marketing forces could muster prior to this film's release . 
in spite of the hype , darth maul is a character which almost didn't have to be in the film , his role is so insignificant . 
he has maybe three spoken lines ( believe it or not , a second actor voices the character ) and the rest of the time just scowls and looks mean . 
with that working against him , he never has a chance at being interesting and instead ends up an utter disappointment . 
lucas seems to have wanted to develop the spiritual nature of the star wars universe , something which has been prominent throughout . 
however , he does so largely by paralleling the star wars spirituality with the bible , offering an easy out for story-writing and once again bringing the viewer back to planet earth with a real-life connection . 
oddly , while trying to capitalize on spirituality , lucas at the same time introduces the fact that mastery of the force is dependent upon having little force-loving parasites in your body's cells . 
this only serves to de-mystify the workings of the force a few notches by offering a scientific connection . 
don't let me mislead you too far . 
the phantom menace , by most standards , is a good film . 
it contains a lot of visual treats , sets the stage for an epic story , gives us a bit of excitement here and there , and even allows us to revisit some of our old friends . 
it's just that when held up to it's predecessors ( and to not do so would be unrealistic ) , this film simply pales . 
in december of 1996 , a little movie called " scream , " was released , became a box-office smash , and resurrected films targeted at teens . 
first , it was teen slasher movies that were the big fad ( both " scream " movies , " i know what you did last summer , " " urban legend , " etc . ) , but just recently , the popularity has switched over to the teen comedy genre ( a 'la '80s john hughes ) , starting with last june's " can't hardly wait . " 
it may be the first week of april in 1999 , but so far this year we have been given a movie aimed at the 25-and-under market almost every single week : " varsity blues , " " jawbreaker , " " cruel intentions , " " simply irresistible , " " the rage : carrie 2 , " and " the mod squad . " 
coming april 9 are two more of this type : " never been kissed " and " go , " and on april 23 , we've got the teen satire " election " and the teen horror-comedy " idle hands . " 
jeesh ! 
out of all of these moves , however , the one that is most similar to the latest incarnation , " 10 things i hate about you , " is this past january's mediocre , ho-hum " she's all that . " 
although similar in plotting ( ok , darn near identical ) , " 10 things i hate about you , " a modern-day version of shakespeare's " the taming of the shrew " ( " she's all that " got its inspiration from " pygmalion " ) , is an infinitely superior film in every department , from the smart direction by first-time feature director gil junger to the charming and well-written screenplay by karen mccullah lutz and kirsten smith to the striking ensemble cast , who give the best group of performances in a teen comedy since 1985's " the breakfast club . " 
and to top it all off , in the inevitable climax set at the prom , at least we didn't have to once again suffer through a goofy , inappropriate dance sequence ( who could forget , or want to remember , for that matter , this ludicrous development in " she's all that ? " ) . 
the day wide-eyed , shy new student cameron james ( joseph gordon-levitt ) starts school at seattle-based padua high , he is swept away at the sight of the beautiful and popular sophomore , bianca stratford ( larisa oleynik ) . 
although he doesn't know french , he purposefully learns some of it just so he can tutor her , but finds that her paranoid gynecologist father ( larry miller ) won't allow her to date until her bitter , unconventional older sister , kat ( julia stiles ) , a senior , decides to . 
kat , of course , has sworn off the likes of boys , but cameron sets out to find someone that will be the perfect match for her , which is exactly what he finds in the form of the rebellious patrick verona ( heath ledger ) . 
complicating matters , cameron's dorky friend , michael ( david krumholtz ) , decides to use a wealthy jock , joey ( andrew keegan ) , who also has his sights set on bianca , as a pawn so that he will pay patrick to get kat to go out with him , and then cameron hopes to steal bianca away from joey . 
as you can see , " 10 things i hate about you " includes a huge number of characters , some of which i haven't even mentioned , such as kat's shakespeare-obsessed friend , mandella ( susan may pratt ) and bianca's materialistic comrade , chastity ( gabrielle union ) . 
at a short , but well-used running time of 98 minutes , all of the characters are perfectly handled , satisfyingly developed , and , for the most part , are not treated as caricatures ( another flaw of " she's all that , " where the bad guys ( and gals ) ran around constantly saying , " you're vapor " ) . 
since i could sympathize with the realistic depictions of the central characters , and since many of the comedic and dramatic scenes were surprisingly effective , i got completely caught up in all of the relationships and was thoroughly entertained . 
aside from a good screenplay , it's the performances that can make or break a movie , and director junger has really hit the jackpot . 
aside from joseph gordon-levitt ( " 3rd rock from the sun " ) , who gives his strongest performance to date here , none of the actors are that well-known , but it is this aspect that brings a particular freshness to the proceedings . 
as the main character of kat , julia stiles ( last seen in the miniseries " the '60s " ) is marvelous and always believable , and certainly has a bright future ahead of her . 
even though it is her role that is initially the most difficult and hard-edged , it was easy to identify with kat's way of thinking ( she is against the silly tradition of the prom and loves reading sylvia plath ) , and i completely admired her individuality . 
no one , i think , could have portrayed her as perfectly as stiles does . 
heath ledger , as the infamous bad-boy of the town , injects much life into patrick , and has a lot of chemistry with stiles . 
one other actor of note is larisa oleynik who , with the help of screenwriters lutz and smith , is able to turn bianca into a person with multi-dimensions , even though she is accurately self-centered at the on-set . 
in one truthful scene , cameron angrily asks her if she has always been so selfish , and bianca grudgingly realizes that yes , she has . 
one off-beat element of the film , and a source of some hearty laughs , is the way that the school's staff act , which is strikingly unformal . 
allison janney , as the guidance counselor ms . perky , who is writing a trashy harlequin romance novel , is comic dynamite , as is daryl " chill " mitchell as the english teacher , who reads shakespeare to the class in rap and , at one point , sends kat to the office because , for once , she actually thinks one of his assignments is really good . 
although there are a few cheap laughs that are thrown into the film near the beginning , most of it actually works , especially in the humorous and witty dialogue exchanges and quirks between the characters . 
in one very funny scene , chastity asks , " i know people can be overwhelmed , and they can be underwhelmed , but can people just be . . . whelmed ? " 
at another point , bianca and kat's father ( a stand-out larry miller ) , who is constantly terrified that his daughters are going to get pregnant , only allows bianca to go to the prom on one occasion : before she leaves , she has to put on the heavy fat suit he has so she will get an idea of what it's like to be pregnant . 
 " 10 things i hate about you " once and for all proves that there is still life in the teen comedy genre , and this movie is probably more reminiscent of the great john hughes than any other film of the '90s . 
it also helps that the movie has a perfectly-assembled soundtrack , mixing indie-rock with new wave '80s songs ( and with , thank goodness , no rap ) . 
by the film's end , it actually had me rooting for certain characters to get together , and i was also quite pleased with how everything was wrapped up , especially in the final scenes involving kat and bianca , kat and her father , and a flawlessly-acted and moving sequence in which kat gets up to read the poem she has written for her english class ( this is where the title comes from ) . 
luckily , i doubt i would be able to find ten things i hate about " 10 things i hate about you , " but the positive aspects of the film far out-number ten . 
the last steve martin film i saw , the spanish prisoner , was a very different approach for the comic actor . 
as a millionaire leading a massive conspiracy in order to rob " a process " from a clueless businessman , martin's character did it all for money . 
in his most recent movie , bowfinger , martin plays yet another con man except this time he does it to succeed in the film industry . 
he wants to direct a successful picture that will force people to remember his name , that will make him more popular at the parties , and , most importantly , that will cause fed ex to deliver important business packages to his front door . 
playing the title role , martin is once again the good guy ; the one we cheer for to complete his low budget action movie . 
this con man is very likeable for some reason , even though he is doing the same exact thing as the malicious jimmy del from the spanish prisoner . 
maybe the message is that , in hollywood , to win over the trust and friendship of others , you have to be a little evil . 
bowfinger is a very clever comedy with great performances from its two stars . 
martin , who also wrote the screenplay , is perfect as a jerk with a conscience and eddie murphy does his best " peter sellers " in two different , but equally hilarious , roles ; one as a big time move star and the other as his nerdy , burger king employee brother . 
the story follows aging and failing director/producer bobby bowfinger as he makes one last attempt to become a respected member of his field by creating a b-action movie called chubby rain . 
in order to attract actors and crew members , bowfinger promises them that hot shot actor kit ramsey will star in the movie . 
the only problem is that kit refuses to be in it . 
but this won't stop the aggressive bowfinger . 
he is so determined to complete his film that he decides to put kit in it without even telling him . 
he has his actors approach kit on the streets of los angeles in character with a hidden camera filming the footage . 
will bowfinger be able to make his film ? 
or will kit ramsey discover what exactly is going on ? 
bowfinger is a very cartoon-like movie that pokes fun at hollywood and its famous residents while simultaneously holding a very solid story line . 
the only area where the film really lacks is the cameo department . 
this is the kind of movie that cameos are all about , it is always funny to see actors/directors/producers making fun of themselves or co-workers especially in a playful movie such as this . 
besides the very repetitive and superflous ending , bowfinger is a joy to watch . 
if you take a movie like this seriously then you will never enjoy it . 
if you accept the incredulous plot and the extreme caricatures of real entertainment figures , the movie is great fun . 
whenever studio executives try to combine the successful formula of two blockbuster films , the end result is always a mess of a script , acting , directing , and generally a waste of time for any audience with an average iq above 40 . 
the latest movie morass from hollywood , the crew , appeared equally destined to fail , a strange combination of grumpy old men and goodfellas tossed together with the likes of richard dreyfuss and burt reynolds helming the ship . 
the scary thing is that it's actually entertaining and a breath of fresh air in this otherwise stale month . 
the crew works for several reasons . 
the clever script is reminiscent of an old billy wilder movie , following four " past their prime " wiseguys from jersey who now live in the raj mahal apartment house in miami beach . 
the wiseguys find themselves being evicted from their " golden paradise " by greedy landlords bent on raising rents for new beach bunnies and boys looking for beachfront property . 
the four mobsters , bobby bartellemeo ( richard dreyfuss ) , joey " bats " pistella ( burt reynolds ) , mike " the brick " donatelli ( dan hedaya ) , and tony " mouth " donato ( seymour cassel ) decide to hatch a scheme to plant there a dead body heisted from the morgue in order to drive out the new tenants and keep their home . 
this " simple plan " suddenly goes screwy , of course , and the boys become involved with a stripper named ferris ( jennifer tilly ) who wants her stepmother killed , a paranoid latin drug lord who's convinced a mysterious rival is out to get him , and a rat with its tail on fire . 
the crew works as a strong comedic vehicle driven by a great ensemble cast of talented character actors and subtle leading men . 
instead of concentrating on bobby's search for his daughter , the film gives equal screen time to all four wiseguys , balancing the production . 
the acting talents of such screen veterans as dan hedaya , seymour cassel , and the great , great burt reynolds are brought out by each character's uniqueness and synergy within the wiseguy circle . 
a strong supporting cast including jeremy piven as a philandering boyfriend/cop/partner and miguel sandoval as the paranoid drug lord provide the most laughs . 
the film was produced by barry sonnenfeld and carries a hint get shorty with its energetic camera work by michael dinner , emmy award-winning director of the wonder years . 
the quick script written by barry fanaro , screenwriter of kingpin , is carried by plenty of subtly dry humor and wit . 
the crew is a prime example of how simple and dry-witted a comedy can get these days . 
the great thing is that this comedy does not need to be punctuated by bodily fluids , phallus symbols in the head , or grandmothers giving head in a spa . 
in the steady flow of " extreme " comedy these days flowing from hollywood like a broken water main , it's the elder statesmen like dreyfuss , reynolds , and hedaya that can carry a comic arc with only a few weapons of choice - a decent script and good acting . 
along his carreer , mel gibson has collected several successes , not only from an economic point of view but also from an artistic point of view . 
for all that , i think no one could guess the skills and abilities now disclosed in braveheart . 
the australian actor decided to produce and direct a film about sir william wallace , a popular scotch hero of the 13th century , where he would also perform the principal role . 
accepting so huge challenge , mel gibson run the risk of stain all his work of years , with a suppoosed failure , just to see recognized , by everyone , all his potentialities and , that way , to consolidate his position in hollywood . 
it was , definitely , an enormous risk but i'm sure mel knew exactly well what he was going to face . 
braveheart is , in fact , a magnificent and magisterial film . 
for three hours we are completely absorbed by the narrative's rhyitm which never gives place to a single moment of monotony or uninterest . 
the william wallace's story is the story of so many others brave liberty's defenders who fought and gave the life for that essential value , along the centuries . 
seeing himself and his people victims of injustices and violent repression , william wallace dares to face the powerful edward i , king of england , in a war by the autonomy of scotland . 
as the victories succeed the number of fighters with wallace goes growing up . 
his courage and inteligence are admired by everyone , including the princess isabelle of wales , wife of edward's son . 
however , william wallace was also surrounded by enemies and some of them were closer than he thought . 
braveheart may not be an historically corrected movie but the nature of its message make us think about the importance that we give to liberty , nowadays . 
mel gibson directs with a lot of brilliancy a brilliant cast . 
patrick mcgoohan has a very nice performance as edward i , the king longshank . 
the scene when he waits for the death and loses his voice is really good . 
sophie marceau , as princess isabelle , has along the movie no more than fifteen minutes of performance but mel gibson gave to those minutes such a very special treatment that princess isabelle soon becomes one of the major characters in braveheart . 
i also liked the performances of angus macfadyen , as robert the bruce , and , of course , mel gibson , as william wallace . 
however , i think this time the mel gibson's work as director was much better than his work as actor . 
the excellent music composed by james horner is another thing that helps braveheart to be the success that it really is . 
when we join that music to the beautiful scotch landscapes , view by the camera of john toll , then we realize all the beauty of this film . 
braveheart is , in my opinion , one of the best movies of 1995 ! 
i've heard some people saying that mel gibson is gonna be a new david lean . 
for now , let's see if braveheart equalizes the 6 oscars of lawrence of arabia . 
it won't be easy ! 
it's gonna be one more challenge for mel gibson . 
renown surrealist director , the 77-year-old frenchman alain resnais ( hiroshima , mon amour/last year at marienbad/m ? lo ) , has created a lighthearted musical played as an homage to britisher dennis potter and his pennies from heaven ( 1978 tv serial , 1981 movie ) and the singing detective ( 1986 ) . 
the film follows potter's gimmicky style of having the characters jump into lip-synched old or contemporary french pop songs to express their private thoughts . 
he also follows the kind of sweet and colorful musicals his fellow countryman jacques demy loved to direct , such as " the umbrellas of cherbourg " and " the young girls of rochefort . " 
the tale has resnais's unique touches as a director to go along with his homage . 
it is a satire about class differences and falling in love with the wrong person , and that there is a song in everyone's heart for every occasion . 
what hinders this production is that the stars are not portraying particularly engaging characters , the songs are not memorable and stand little chance of being recognized by an american audience ( the exceptions might be the edith piaf and maurice chevalier numbers ) , and the farce seems more banal than daring . 
yet it is not without its striking moments and charms , such as when jane birkin does a cameo and sings one of her own songs . 
also , the glossy amberlike photography added a very french romantic feeling to the story , while the mood of paris as being a place for love to flourish above all else , which has always been embellished in movie lore , comes through with flying colors . 
it also does a good job of showing you the way paris is in the 1990s and in the way ordinary people exist there . 
it tells the romantic story of six parisians who become intertwined with each other in their ordinary lives as they search for happiness . 
they are the attractive sisters odile ( sabine az ? ma ) and camille ( agnes jaoui ) , with the older businesswoman odile married and decidedly set on a bourgeois life of material comforts . 
she is married to the glum and laconic claude ( pierre arditi ) . 
she once went out with a businessman , nicolas ( jean-pierre bacri ) , who left her 8-years ago and now shows up in paris and asks her help to find someone to rent a flat for his family . 
simon ( andre dussolier ) works as a real-estate salesman and is trying to find nicolas a flat , in his spare time he writes radio plays . 
simon's boss is the much younger , unscrupulous and arrogant marc duveyrier ( lambert wilson ) , who inherited the firm from his father and is the real-estate agent selling a more luxurious and larger flat with a better view to odile , but fails to tell her that a building project is going up soon that will block her view . 
screenwriters and actors jean-pierre bacri and agnes jaoui wrote themselves the best parts . 
jaoui's camille is a university scholar finishing up a ph . d . 
in history , using for her thesis the study of 'the yeomen in the year 1000 at lake paladru . ' 
she works as a tour guide in the meantime and suffers from panic attacks , even though she appears to have outwardly perfect self-control . 
on her tours for the last four years has been the much older simon , pretending to be doing research for his plays but really attracted to her , but not having the nerve to tell her this . 
to his dismay , he finds out she is dating his mean-spirited but handsome boss , whom she meets when looking at her sister's new place and seeing him crying but not realizing that it was from a cold , not because he's so sensitive . 
bacri as the classy nicolas , turns out to be now working as a chauffeur . 
he is a hypochondriac with a history of depression who visits many doctors , until he finds one who tells him there is nothing wrong with him . 
odile still pines for him , but he's married , telling her he expects his wife to arrive shortly . 
love is 'the same old song' that makes the world go 'round , even when all the characters are liars and not exactly open to what their true motives are . 
everything comes together in a bourgeois housewarming party for odile's place , as the characters reveal their true feelings and all their deceptions and neurotic impulses are either uncovered or about to be . 
there's not a lot of bite to this satirical musical , but resnais has never made a bad film and is one of the best current french directors , if not the best . 
this film is not one his great ones , but it still has enough pep in its light touches to be interesting . 
it not only has an odd way for the characters to break into song but -- some males even sing in a female voice while some females sing in a male voice . 
it is also interesting in the way it examines its characters' behavior as being similar in business as in love . 
in 1987 the stock market crashed , and oliver stone's wall street was released to critical acclaim and packed movie houses . 
wall street lucked out in its timing ; the recent crash gave the film a resonation it might not of had , and though its kill-or-be-killed approach to business was exaggerated , that very ideology was keyed into the mind set of the quintessential reagan-era businessman . 
stone constructed his film as a mythical good vs . evil tale relayed in the fast-paced milieu of the burgeoning stock exchange . 
critics and audiences lauded wall street , elevating its status to that of a contemporary classic . 
i'm proud to say that i will never be counted as one of them . 
i found wall street to be just as axiomatic and pandering as the majority of stone's output with its thin caricatures , obvious sentiments , and a charisma barren performance by the young charlie sheen . 
stone goes for broke in every scene ( the same could be said for nearly all of his works ) . 
this approach tends to bury his purported message beneath a heap of good intentions . 
he directs stock exchange scenes in typical hyperbolic mode with people shouting into phones as if they were in a plummeting airplane . 
it's all an excuse for stone to ratchet up the emotion with false intensity , rather than explore what these situations are really like . 
i have a feeling the brokers would be psychologically manipulative ( as they are presented in boiler room ) rather than laughably over the top . 
these guys are salesmen after all , not televised judges . 
more than anything i am baffled by why so many adore wall street . 
the only possible solution i can muster is its release date . 
and not just the timeliness of the " greed is good " subject matter : the film was plumped down in the eighties , a decade in which the one-joke comedy rose to an art form , and a group of glamorous brat packers smirked their way through inane high concept , low result movies . 
in my mind , the eighties will forever be remembered as a decade with not only a proliferation of bad movies , but bad music , bad hair , and bad clothes . 
maybe stone's after school special set in wall street was viewed as a welcome change of pace . 
boiler room is an equally well-timed film with some similarities to stone's piece of crap . 
they both feature a consequential father-son relationship , though boiler room's is much more subtle and touching . 
and they are both concerned with the power of greed , yet the men in boiler room are akin to poseurs presuming to be big shots rather than the slippery-smooth , heartless gordon gecko figures of wall street . 
boiler room is a message movie as well , though ( at least until the end ) doesn't shove it in our faces . 
boiler room is about the pursuit of cash and the degrees to which people will go for that cash . 
as i said , this film is indeed timely in a society where who wants to be a millionaire is the number one prime time show every day ( bringing about a revolution of prime time tv watching that hasn't been seen in quite a while ) ; not only do we want to be millionaires , we want to watch other people become millionaires ! 
in our super-judgmental , power-oriented culture the desire for money supersedes everything ; when you have money , you have it " all " . 
and seth ( giovanni ribisi ) wants it " all " the easy way . 
he's a well-intentioned college drop out who gets lured into working for an illegally run brokerage firm ( the kind that sells junk stock ) whereupon he meets others just like him . 
ben affleck is cast as jim , the company headhunter , who struts in commanding the room like a frat boy gordon gecko . 
his job is to influence trainee's into becoming enthusiastic employees by giving a speech that subtly attacks their man hood . 
it's ironic that he sells these pups the same load of b . s that they're told to dish out to prospective buyers . 
affleck's character is obviously supposed to recall alec baldwin's similar character in glengary glen ross , and that proves detrimental to the actor's performance . 
affleck shouts , curses and be-littles his rookie employees just like baldwin , minus the edge . 
when alec played the scene he became the part , spewing those brutal lines as if they were his own . 
by comparison affleck simply looks as if he were doing a really hammy line reading . 
the brokers approach their job with the fervor of overzealous jocks : they storm to work like football players on the way to the big game . 
rap music thumps on the soundtrack effectively illustrating who these guys think they are : intellectual gangsters . 
they aren't above a rumble as a test of man hood especially during leisure time where the lumbering scott caan seems all too eager to use his fists in minor disputes . 
we drink up this world along with seth , and watch him become seduced by it , just like we might be . 
as in all cautionary tales , boiler room begins with seducing us into its illustrious world of profit and wrongdoing , then smacks us with the consequences of all the recklessness . 
i know this story . 
we all do . 
but it can work if it's told with intelligence and energy , and that is how writer \ director ben younger tells it . 
as a director of ( please excuse my french ) mise-en-scene younger has much to learn . 
his style is sitcom bland . 
but his writing isn't . 
younger's script is well studied in the vernacular of this bunch ; his dialogue is like a junior david mamet . 
despite the moderate camera work younger fills his phone-pitch scenes with tension that comes from just the performances and the tightly wound script . 
the brokers \ hucksters counter every customer objection , gently bullying them into buying stock . 
these moments are filmed like psychological action scenes : a tense confrontation between a victimizer and a victim who isn't aware that he is one . 
with the exception of affleck's brief appearances , the performances are truly exceptional . 
ribisi , who has the edgy looks of a character actor , is extremely potent here , working his pale angular face , and eerie , plaintive stare for all their worth . 
he conveys child-like vulnerability ( his character seems to hide in a corner whenever things aren't going his way ) in some scenes , and in others he's ferociously cut throat . 
the jekyll and hyde contradiction works well in the movie : ribisi is confident when it's just him and the phone , but cowardly in front of authority figures including his abrasive father ( authoritatively played by ron rifkin ) . 
boiler room thankfully avoids wall street-like histrionics in the sales-pitch sequences ; the sales build slowly like a crescendo of intelligent psychological ploys . 
those ploys are taught to seth by chris ( vin diesel ) , a kind broker who alternates between seth's friend and his mentor . 
diesl shines in his minor role . 
this week i saw the sci-fi opus pitch black in which diesel plays a completely different role in an equally effective manner . 
in that film he has the kind of role that might have gone to arnold schwarzenegger in the 80's , and in boiler room he has the kind of role that might have gone to elliot gould in the 70's . 
nicky katt is also memorable as a superior broker obsessed with what he can't have . 
nia long , as the firm's secretary , ( a lone black women amongst many white men ) is ribisi's love interest in a part that at first looks to be as insignificant as most of the parts this talented actress gets , but develops into something more interesting . 
the two make an oddly likeable couple . 
long is smart and brash , and ribisi is charmingly aloof . 
at one point he says to her " i'm just lookin' for some chocolate love " . 
it's a terrible line but ribisi delivers it in such an innocuous child-like way , it becomes sweetly endearing . 
unfortunately , towards the end , the boiler room turns a tad schmaltzy . 
there is much crying , hugging , and sorrowful stares . 
this is okay when taken in small doses , but younger's conclusion is constructed as a series of these boo-hoo moments , one following the other . 
a particular misstep is his attempt to show the effect that seth's manipulations have on one of his poor victims . 
it's not a bad idea but the execution is lacking , with those scenes feeling tacked on to further spell out the message . 
that message being , " greed is bad " . 
yes it's patently obvious , but boiler room conveys it by introducing us to a culture that i haven't seen much of in the movies : the disenfranchised twenty something entrepreneur . 
and all wall street did was introduce us to a simplistic fantasy world of saints and sinners . 
boiler room offers neither extreme . 
it gives us what is in between , and for that i am thankful . 
look back at all the times in your life when there was a fork in the path to the future . 
some sort of decision had to be made , and , for better or worse , it irrevocably altered the course of your existence . 
>from time-to-time , everyone thinks about the roads not taken , and how things might have turned out if the choice had been different . 
perhaps even more dizzying to contemplate is how a seemingly minor action -- catching the 10 am train , for example -- could have an equally profound , yet less obvious , impact . 
maybe that's where you met your significant other , and , had you reached the platform just a few seconds later ? 
film makers are no less fascinated by issues of destiny than anyone else , and that's why there's no shortage of movies about this subject . 
the best of the bunch were probably made by the late polish director krzysztof kieslowski , who was obsessed with questions of fate and chance . 
these themes weave their way through many of his movies , including decalogue , the double life of veronique , and the triptych of blue , white , and red . 
however , they are most explicitly examined in a 1981 film called blind chance , where kieslowski presents the three different fates of one man after a minor action ( missing or catching a train ) changes the course of his life . 
in his autobiography , kieslowski on kieslowski , the director describes his attraction to the concept this way : " [the idea is] rich and interesting ? that every day we're faced with a choice which could end our entire life yet of which we're completely unaware . " 
while this approach has been the fodder for several notable dramatic films ( including , in a way , frank capra's it's a wonderful life ) , sliding doors is the first romantic comedy to plumb its depths . 
the " road not taken " approach isn't just a plot device , either . 
writer/director peter howitt expands upon both possible fates of a character after she just misses/catches a train . 
the audience watches , with ever-growing fascination , how this one event impacts upon every aspect of her life : her future career , where she lives , whom she loves , and whether she has a family . 
as her separate destinies diverge and then re-converge , she becomes two completely different individuals . 
that woman is helen , played by gwyneth paltrow as a long , dark- haired brit . 
one day , after losing her job as an advertising executive , she decides to return home in the middle of the day . 
the scene of the pivotal moment is a train platform . 
in scenario #1 , she just slips through the sliding doors before the train pulls out of the station . 
on board , she meets the cheerful , talkative james ( john hannah ) , a monty python fan who is taken with her beauty . 
minutes later , in her flat , she walks in on her lover , gerry ( john lynch ) , in bed with another woman ( jeanne tripplehorn ) . 
in scenario #2 , she misses the train and , shortly thereafter , is the victim of an attempted mugging . 
she doesn't meet james and fails to make it home in time to discover gerry's infidelity . 
juxtaposed one against the other , while sharing many places , cues , and characters , the two stories proceed in parallel from there . 
on one level , for viewers who enjoy pondering the workings of fate , sliding doors can be viewed as a deep and wonderful experience . 
but , for those who just appreciate a romantic comedy characterized by solid acting , a script with a few twists , and a great deal of genuinely funny material , sliding doors still fits the bill . 
one of its most obvious strengths is that it can satisfy many different types of audiences -- those who demand something substantial from their motion pictures , and those who could care less . 
it shouldn't come as any surprise that the acting , at least from three of the four leads , is solid . 
paltrow , who does double duty as two helens who are initially the same , yet gradually become much different , is the standout . 
she plays both of her roles effectively and believably -- the shy , insecure woman who stays with gerry and the liberated , platinum-blond who severs the ties to her old life and embarks on a new career with a new man . 
john hannah , known to most american viewers as the younger gay character in four weddings and a funeral , is instantly likable . 
john lynch , taking a break from movies about ireland's troubles , does a good job presenting gerry as a inept , selfish philanderer . 
only jeanne tripplehorn , who plays an over-the-top vixen , seems out of place . 
her attempts at broad comedy are occasionally jarring , and it's occasionally difficult to see her lydia as anything more than a plot element . 
one member of the supporting cast deserves special notice . 
douglas mcferran , who plays gerry's best friend , russell , is an absolute delight , stealing every scene that he's in . 
part of this is surely because he is given the best lines in the movie . 
on one occasion , he has a marvelous monologue bemoaning how advances in the telecommunications industry have trapped men into a life of monogamy . 
on another occasion , while laughing at gerry's plight with the women in his life , he comments , " being with you makes the wait for the next episode of seinfeld more bearable . " 
but it's not all in the dialogue . 
mcferran tears into this part with relish ; his performance becomes one of the most memorable aspects of a top-notch comedy . 
this is the first feature film for peter howitt , and he approaches the task with unimpeachable aplomb . 
the script is shrewd and inventive , combining wit , romance , and intelligent melodrama into a crowd-pleasing whole . 
sliding doors grants more than just a good time at the movies , however . 
for those who are so inclined , its central theme offers an opportunity to ponder some of the more philosophical questions about the workings of the universe -- all while having a good time . 
three things i learned from " being john malkovich " : when getting on the elevator for your first day of work on the 7 1/2th floor of a building , always bring your crowbar ; don't stand in the way of your wife's actualization as a man ; and , whenever entering a portal into the mind of another human being , wear old clothes , because , hey , it's muddy in there . 
 " being john malkovich " is the most original film to come down the pike in a very long time . 
wildly surrealistic , yet presented in a down-to-earth , funky style , this is the kind of movie that sticks in your head . 
after savoring the sheer inventiveness of the storyline , you roll around the wealth of ideas contained within it . 
from the ethics of relationships and politics of immortality to the very nature of identity itself , there's a lot to think about here . 
just don't forget to have fun . 
clearly , all parties involved in the making of the film certainly did , starting with writer charles kaufman . 
 " i wrote 'being john malkovich' without an outline , " he explains in the press notes , " blindly , with no sense of direction or purpose . 
it's important to me that i don't have a map before i start . 
this allows me to surprise myself , stay engaged , discover things , and , hopefully , allow the unconscious to surface . " 
spike jonze ( mark wahlberg's na ? ve buddy in " three kings " ) takes it from there . 
the white-hot director of the beastie boy's " sabotage , " an award-winning parody of '70s tv cop shows , as well as numerous other music videos and commercials , eschews typical mtv flash for his feature film debut . 
jonze wisely realized that a storyline this unusual is most effectively presented in a low-key style . 
his flat , matter-of-fact approach works perfectly . 
and then there's the cast . 
john cusack plays control freak craig schwartz , a street performer who periodically gets decked by parents objecting to his remarkably expressive , but decidedly erotic puppet shows . 
over the years , his marriage to obsessive pet store employee lotte ( cameron diaz ) has devolved . 
once passionate lovers , the two are now little more than courteous roommates . 
financially strapped , craig takes a job as an entry-level file clerk at lestercorp , located on the 7 1/2th floor of a manhattan building . 
navigating around dr . lester ( orson bean ) , his 105 year-old boss and floris ( mary kay place ) , lester's dotty secretary , craig tries to settle into his new position , but two things keep him distracted . 
first , there's the beautiful and imperious maxine ( catherine keener ) , who delights in tormenting craig over his obvious lust for her . 
and then there's the hole behind the file cabinet , which turns out to be a portal into the mind of actor john malkovich . 
craig learns that anyone who enters the portal gets whooshed into the subconscious of malkovich , where they can experience life from his point of view ( with enough concentration , you can even influence his actions ) . 
after 15 minutes , the visitor gets ejected and unceremoniously dumped in a ditch on the side of the new jersey turnpike . 
then things get a little weird . 
by the way , if you're concerned that i gave away too much of the plot , rest assured - - i barely scratched the surface . 
one of the most satisfying aspects of the fable is that kaufman is not content to simply milk laughs from his bizarre set-up . 
instead , he crawls into the dark premise as completely as craig crawls into malkovich , rummaging around and toying with the various philosophical implications of compromising another person's identity . 
he also examines the consequences of the malko-visits to craig , lotte , maxine and , of course , john malkovich himself . 
the performances are superb . 
malkovich ( best known to mainstream audiences for his work in " dangerous liaisons , " " in the line of fire , " and as head psychopath in the guilty-pleasure " con air " ) tweaks his own image in a dandy self-deprecating turn . 
far from his effete , vaguely reptilian persona , this malkovich is just another schlub , drinking with his pals and trying to get laid ( incidentally , charlie sheen also plays himself in a hilarious parody of his well-earned bad boy reputation ) . 
as always , john cusack nails his part , handily pulling viewers along even as craig's actions become unconscionable . 
the big surprises come from catherine keener and cameron diaz , both playing against type . 
kenner , usually cast in icy subordinate roles , is terrific as a highly intelligent , extremely manipulative femme fatale . 
cameron diaz , barely recognizable under a mess of brown , curly hair , sheds her perpetually sunny smile and draws big laughs as a woman thrown into extreme sexual confusion after taking a ride in malkovich . 
 " being john malkovich " stumbles towards the end , as jonze and kaufman try too hard to resolve the various subplots . 
additional characters and increasingly complex explanations lead to a cluttered finale . 
regardless , this contemporary " alice in wonderland " is a real treat . 
i enjoyed watching " being john malkovich , " but only later , after reflecting on the film , did its resonance fully hit me . 
at one point , craig says , " do you know what a metaphysical can of worms this portal is ? " 
truer words were never spoken . 
in my reviews i try to make gentle recommendations rather than telling you what to see or what not to see . 
i realize that we all have different tastes and i cannot predict what my audience will like and what they will dislike . 
but in the case of american beauty , i must make an exception . 
if you haven't yet seen it , go see it . 
now . 
stop reading this review and head for your local multiplex , then after you've seen it , come back . 
i'll wait here . 
welcome back . 
if you followed my advice ( and i see no reason why you should not have , do you ? ) , 
i'm sure you've just had one of the richest cinematic experiences of your life . 
american beauty is an extraordinary film , a powerful , jolting exploration of the dark side of the american dream . 
it's humorous but it isn't funny because of the unrelenting ominous undercurrent that runs throughout the whole production . 
mixing comedy and the darkest of drama was the way this film was intended , and by god , it works , making it one of the year's very best . 
lester burnham ( kevin spacey ) has entered the mother of all mid-life crises . 
he is living life without a purpose . 
he is bored , depressed and sick of his sheltered , insignificant existence . 
he barely ever talks to his family , has no sex life , is stuck at a dead-end job and thinks he has no reason to live . 
but one day , when he and his equally troubled wife ( annette bening ) attend one of his daughter's ( thora birch ) cheerleading performances , he sees something that makes him come alive . 
what he sees is the performance by his daughter's friend , the head cheerleader . 
he develops a lust for the promiscuous young girl ; an obsession which soon becomes pedophilic in nature . 
but for the first time , lester feels that he is actually living . 
this crush is only the beginning . 
lester proceeds to make more and more radical changes in his life , buying the car of his dreams , cursing off the boss and quitting his job ( " today i quit my job , told the boss to f * * * himself and blackmailed him for $60 , 000 -- would you pass the asparagus please ? " ) , 
buying drugs from the voyeur-next-door ( ricky fitts , a teenager who mysteriously videotapes what he considers to be " beauty " ) and refusing to be docile in family affairs . 
his new attitude further alienates his daughter , only reassuring her that her parents are nothing more than freaks of nature unjustly forced on her by the powers that be , and inspiring her to enter a relationship with her eccentric neighbor . 
and the burnhams's neighbors provide american beauty with a significant chunk of its dramatic momentum . 
ricky fitts ( wes bentley ) serves as the film's thematic center , providing the obscure , powerful meaning of the title . 
colonel fitts , the father , is one of the most fascinating and complex characters in the movie , even considering his limited screentime . 
kevin spacey has never been better , and this performance will certainly earn him a chance to put a little gold person on his mantel . 
he never plays his droll character as a freak , rather , he effectively portrays him as a normal person led to drastic self-exploration by his dissatisfaction with life . 
spacey is poignant and devastating in the role of a lifetime . 
equally astonishing is young thora birch , who plays her potentially stereotypical rebellious teen character with suprising feeling and tenderness . 
at two hours and ten minutes , american beauty didn't feel nearly long enough . 
it's a complicated , unforgettable film that , like the ice storm two years ago , dares to explore the darkest reaches of suburban life . 
powerfully and cynically , it dissects the notion of the pretty house with the white picket fence and appealing garden being the american dream . 
it claims that this picture-perfect image is just that -- an image , and hiding behind it are lives much darker than common knowledge would have it . 
the dark , deeply ironic ending , though given away by our narrator in the first few minutes of the movie , stays with you for weeks after it's all over . 
american beauty is just the kind of uncompromising film hollywood needs every now and then to counterbalance the mindless drivel we see released ; even more so considering it's a masterpiece . 
'pleasantville' ( 1998 ) taps into hollywood's lack of integrity with subtle messages that can be easily missed 
 ( www . pleasantville . com ) april 2 , 1999 ( friday ) 
cast : tobey maguire , reese witherspoon , william h . macy , joan allen , j . t . 
walsh , jeff daniels 
mpaa rating : pg-13 for sexual content and thematic elements 
genre : drama 
in my opinion : 
in short : it takes a lot of careful observation to see the true morals and lessons brought out in this film ; one can easily be misled as to what the real message is . 
review : in a literally colorless world with an almost mechanical population , there is no room for transitioning variety or even the customary happenings of everyday life , such as rain , fire , or emotions . 
the town of pleasantville has one adjective : pleasant . 
there is no sadness , no fear , no danger , no discomfort , no love , and no hate . 
put simply , it's a place alanis morissette could really work wonders for . 
j one big note however is that it is only a 50's sitcom that airs in reruns on an " oldies " tv station ? or is it ? 
i had waited months to see this movie and after doing so on opening day i was not disappointed . 
i found it quite intriguing and delightful and went back 3 more times in the period it endured at the box office . 
but it wasn't until months later , when i slipped in for a small showing in one of those crummy " dollar theaters " after not having seen it for so long , that my eyes were opened to such a deeper meaning and perspective than i had previously experienced . 
it is a far too feasible misconception that this is a film which forwards the idea that a world without some " healthy " immorality is not a world at all . 
instead , the actual message , which so far has not been recognized by many viewers that i know of , is that a world without immorality doesn't give one the ability to discern right and wrong for himself , because everything is automatically right . 
there is no room for mistakes and growth and learning because there are no mistakes to be made , no space for growth , and never anything new to learn , and that is the key component to the entire purpose of the story . 
now i'm not saying that's necessarily the way it was intended to be interpreted , but that is hands down the proper way in which it should be . 
besides a hidden symbolic depth and themes that go beyond what we can absorb from previews , this film has elements of physical wonder and strength that make it just so great to watch . 
the visual effects are indeed striking and what little color is revealed is impartially favorable . 
after spending the bulk of the movie staring at black and white , it's hard not to identify and appreciate the fact that our own world allows for all that brilliance and more . 
a truly intelligent addition to it all , however , is the charming and ardently attainable cast that operates together like clockwork . 
that said , the plot goes as such . 
david and jennifer are two very 90's high school twins with the typical " relationship " outline of don't-mess-with-my-life-and-i-won't-mess-with-yours . 
they demonstrate the well-known teenage qualities of two of the common versions of adolescents today . 
david is the shyer , subtler twin who would rather watch tv land than mtv , while jennifer is the wild , licentious one who spends her days at the mall and relishes in the pleasures of the offensive world of degradation . 
but when a freak accident enchantingly plops them smack dab in the middle of pleasantville as two of the main characters , they are forced to depend on each other to make it back home . 
nevertheless , jennifer works her magic and introduces the town to a more unrestrained approach to life , and while david frantically tries to stop her and get them back home , he realizes that change was exactly what the town needed . 
and , as said earlier , not to flip the town around into some corrupt society , but rather to give people the choice to decide between good and bad and to reap the results of their decisions and learn from them . 
not only were difficult choices being brought upon the town , but the simple accepted occurrences of ordinary existence also began to take place . 
people got hurt . 
they cried . 
they became afraid and happy and thoughtful and started to think for themselves , and that's when their physical world turned colors as well . 
this can be looked upon as quite a controversial movie , but to me the message is finally clear . 
i hope after reading this people can be more open to the film than they had been in the past , and realize that without choosing how our own lives will be run , we'll never know what we could have done better . 
until the next great movie i see , i remain sincerely , danielle flynn , imr 
note : some may consider portions of the following text to be spoilers . 
be forewarned . 
east meets west in mulan , the latest installment in disney's parade of annual animated feature films . 
an odd fusion of ancient asian traditions and disconcerting elements which betray obvious mass-market commercial sensibilities , this confident entry is easily the most engaging and satisfying hollywood animated feature in years , but falls short of actualizing its potential . 
though not for lack of trying . 
in many respects , mulan is among disney's most mature efforts , skirting the surface of adult themes and daring to sneak glimpses into the messier side of combat . 
the violence of the battles in the film are admittedly sanitized -- the imagery of a pillaged village , neatly encapsulated in the form of a child's discarded doll , is in itself no more harrowing than luke discovering his fallen guardians in star wars , and mulan's later heroics in dispatching of the ruthless invaders is done so in the most tidy , bloodless method imaginable -- yet how often does a hollywood animated film , long considered as the last safe refuge for the innocent , dare touch upon the consequential horrors of war in such a provocative manner ? 
in an instant , idealistic mulan's innocence is lost , and her jovial squadron are reminded of what their efforts are spent defending . 
the film , based upon an ancient chinese fable , centers on a spirited young woman who disguises herself as a man in order to serve as her family's obligatory conscript when china finds itself under attack by huns ( cartoonishly depicted by easy demonic overtones , replete with glowing yellow eyes and dagger-edged teeth , although lent a surprisingly genuine sense of menace ) . 
dipping into the mythology of other cultures for the first time after cavorting in animated revisitings of familiar western / european fables and literature for decades , disney's new film is boldly set in ancient china rather than relocated elsewhere , story intact , to some neutral territory , and revels in its east asian roots ; aside from a predominantly asian-american cast providing the film's vocal work , there's liberal usage of oriental iconography throughout , and the artwork reveal hints of japanese anime influence . 
while the film does occasionally reach its limits and starts to tread upon old stereotypes -- invoking pseudo-asian references to items like beancurd and rice in every third sentence grows rather hoary , and i can't imagine that the regiment for ancient chinese warriors * really * included karate-chopping blocks of stone in two -- it's rather remarkable that a movie primarily positioned for american and european audiences delves so wholeheartedly into new foreign territory . 
the film also freely touches upon cultural idiosyncrasies from its outset ; although savvy viewers should easily pick up on the intrinsics immediately , it's startlingly assertive in providing as little shorthand as it does to unfamiliar youngsters with regards to the customs and traditions of mulan's land . 
at its core , the film is a tale of heroic adventure , and as such paints its story in bold strokes of honour , perseverance , nobility and courage . 
as such , animation is the perfect vehicle for this flavour of epic , where stark emotional simplicity is able to effectively work hand-in-hand with visual purity . 
scenes which would play out as unbearably hokey in live action , such as mulan's venerable father pridefully tossing aside his cane when accepting his draft notice , are lent a sense of strength and conveyed with greater emotional clarity in animation . 
mulan capitalizes on this during its strongest moments , particularly during our heroine's character-defining opening half-hour . 
it's when the film attempts to integrate the traditional mainstays of recent hollywood animation -- the friendly animal sidekick , the colourful array of supporting characters -- into the mix where it goes slightly awry . 
off to battle , mulan finds herself being trailed by a jive-talking diminutive dragon called mushu and an agreeable little " lucky " cricket , who ostensibly appear to assist in her subterfuge and realistically serve as audience-friendly comic relief . 
they're affable presences , and not precisely ineffective -- reasonable amounts of humour are elicited , and eddie murphy ( who voices mushu ) is amusingly earnest -- but amidst all the high melodrama , the effect is mildly jarring and , from a storytelling perspective , questionable in its necessity . 
at training camp , mulan antagonizes and eventually wins over a trio of fumbling recruits ( easily characterized simply as the short clown , the skinny clown , and the big clown ) , who provide more levity into the film with decidedly less effectiveness , and , in a familiar retread of traditional disney patterns , she grows a certain fondness for a handsome , square-jawed young captain , shang . 
everybody needs love , even ancient chinese warrior princesses , but not necessarily in * this * film . 
the romantic angle , which lets the air out of the sails of the story's neo-feminist underpinnings , lacks any genuine spark and plays out like a contractual obligation . 
another staple of recent disney animated films , a cache of hummable little ditties , has also obligingly been carried over to mulan but proves to be a decided weakness . 
composed by matthew wilder , none of the handful of tunes are particularly distinguishing , and one -- " i'll make a man out of you " ( unimaginatively accompanying a tired montage featuring our crew of characters transforming into lean fighting machines ) -- becomes so grating and hackneyed that it seems almost interminable . 
only " reflections " , an early ballad of lament , proves to be a song of any consequence , serving as an effective showcase for lea salonga , one of musical theatre's most wondrously pure voices . 
nonetheless , mulan is an especially appealing piece of work from the disney factory , with a strong narrative arc and pleasant artwork ; the computer-generated stampede of hun warriors charging down a snow mountain is wholly impressive . 
while the blatantly child-friendly elements at times seem incongruous with the remainder of the film , they're not dissuasive and remain fairly enjoyable . 
briskly paced with a smart , energetic heroine and filled with high adventure , the film is ultimately most satisfying on the intimate scale of father and daughter . 
plot : a big-time momma's boy can't seem to leave his mother's crib and make good on the babies that he himself has produced in the world . 
he visits his kids ( and their mommas ) every now and then , but his main goal in life is . . . well , he doesn't have any goals . 
then one day , his mother gets an ex-gangsta boyfriend and suddenly he isn't as welcome anymore in his own house . 
it isn't long after that , that his girlfriends start realizing what a jerk he really is and well . . . it's 
either time to grow up or bow down ! 
critique : first things first ! 
this movie ain't about the " hood " at all , it's an intelligent film about love , relationships , family , friendship , maturity and growing up . 
do not avoid this film because you think it's about gangbangers and stuff , because it isn't at all . 
it's about you , it's about me , it's about your girlfriend , your mother , your problems and your inability to face up to your responsibilities and to , well . . . grow 
up ! 
this is an extremely well-written film , with some of the most developed characters that i've seen on the screen all year , with superb acting performances to match . 
granted , the film does start a little slow ( and go a little long ) , but hang in there , because once you appreciate and get to know all of its characters , you will be glad that you did . 
this isn't a kid's movie . 
this is about the step that you need to take in order to pass into full " adulthood " and some might not appreciate the grander theme behind that step . 
i certainly did , because i too passed , and am passing , through many of these very same things right now ( yeah , yeah , i still live with my momma ! ! ) and related to a lot of the events that went down in this flick ( oh yeah , and for the record , i'm not black but that made absolutely zero difference in this case ) . 
but that's not even half the story . 
you see , the film is damn funny , too . . . and 
i mean , damn funny ! 
i was crackin' up at almost every other scene , and they weren't " set-up jokes " like your typical comedies either , just day-to-day things that we could all relate to ( like the scene in which ving rhames is " drinking koolaid " in the kitchen and his infamously improvised " african squat f * * k " scene , which you just gotta see to believe ! ) 
and there are the performances , too . 
ving rhames , now here's a man who has already established an early lead in the race for best supporting actor at the end of this year . 
damn dude , you scared the shit outta me ! 
tyrese gibson , i have no idea where this guy came from ( an r&b singer and mtv vj , you say . . . hmmmm ? ) , but other than his uncanny resemblance to taye diggs , he nailed this part to the tee . 
from scene one on , i was glued to his performance and sympathized with his character as he molded and shaped himself into the person that he hoped to become one day . 
and everyone else , too . 
gibson's girlfriend in the film , taraji henson , made me a backer with her many subtle touches , all of which helped raise her character several levels above the " typical " bitchie girlfriend that we've seen in many of these relationship movies . 
but that's the thing that i liked the most about this movie . 
everyone seemed real , the situations felt authentic , the characters all came across as people like you and me with issues and struggles and hopes and fears . 
i liked this movie a lot because it was masterfully written , wonderfully acted and genuinely entertaining to watch . 
and yeah , i even liked the whole homage to boyz 'n the hood that singleton pulled off in the end ( he called this movie a " companion piece " to that film ) . 
a very solid follow-up to an ever greater original , baby boy is a film to be seen by anyone who feels like they never wanna grow up . 
note : the guy who plays jody's best friend in this movie is omar gooding , cuba gooding jr . 's younger brother ( cuba starred in 1991's boyz 'n the hood ) . 
where's joblo coming from ? 
the best man ( 8/10 ) - brothers ( 5/10 ) - shaft ( 7/10 ) - summer of sam ( 7/10 ) - what's cooking ( 7/10 ) 
it is an understood passion and an understood calm . 
bud white walks into the home of lynn bracken , a prostitute " cut to look like veronica lake . " 
he's one of l . a . 's finest investigating the murder of fellow cop , and one of the leads takes him to her home . 
it's understood that he is quiet thunder , a guy who's calm voice is more powerful than his arms . 
it's understood that she's supposed to be beautiful , but underneath her face is pain and scraped out lines that say her life could have been so much more . 
you know without having to be told . 
 " you're the first guy who hasn't told me i look like veronicca lake in under a minute , " she says . 
 " you look ten times better . " 
he says it without thinking . 
like he knows without her having to say anything . 
white's face doesn't turn , it doesn't blush . 
you see his eyes , and you believe him . 
it's a perfect moment in a near perfect movie . 
l . a . confidential is the best movie of the year . 
it is grace and poetry ; a richly layered work of pure entertainment . 
it is a portrait of police and morality as it works it's way through characters that are so real on screen that you believe that they might have a soul . 
in a phrase , it is everything . 
it is funny , it is exciting , has enough action and adventure and mystery and grace and suspense . 
it is the pinnacle of a movie , a complete work , a flawless film . 
it's hard to tell you about the plot , because it's about so much more than plot . 
besides , there's too much to describe . 
sure , it's about police and searching for corruption and who fights for the right reasons and the definition of justice . 
but it's also about what you feel when you look into the eyes of the characters in the film . 
director curtis hanson has perfectly framed each character , letting you see into them , rooting for them one moment , doubting them the next . 
the actors work with their lines , but in this movie their most important weapon is their eyes . 
you can tell what each person is feeling just by looking into their eyes for one moment . 
russell crowe plays bud white , a muscle cop with a beef for wife beaters . 
his movements are fierce . 
when he strikes , you jump , when he's calm , you know it won't be for long . 
his intensity oozes out of the screen . 
you follow his character through the movie afraid of him , but in sympathy of him , because you know how good his heart is . 
he's looking for a way to solve crimes , you're just never sure how he's going to do it . 
his counter is ed exley , played with a chisselled face by guy pierce . 
you feel for him , for his character , because of all the cops in the movie he's the one that's actually trying to do the right thing by going by the book . 
you know that he must face the reality of breaking the book , and you love the way he gets there . 
i've seen l . a confidential twice , immediately after it was over , i wanted to hit the rewind button and watch it again . 
i didn't want the theater experience to end . 
it's been a long time since i actually experienced a movie , feeling like i got something after i walked out . 
that's why i love movies ; the great ones can be too rich and powerful to describe . 
watch l . a . confidential : after you leave the theater , you feel like you just watched a classic movie . 
that's why la confidential stands as the best movie of the year . 
l . a . confidential ( directed by curtis hanson . 
starring russell crowe , guy pierce , kevin spacey , james cromwell , and kim basinger . 
capsule : bleak and point-blank -- just the way it should be . 
makes its case with cold-blooded precision and intelligence . 
 " serial killer chic " is a relatively new entry to the cultural vocabulary , and one of the more stomach-turning ones . 
i've never found someone automatically admirable or even interesting because they killed creatively or in great numbers , and because of that i had apprehensions about seeing henry . 
i wasn't sure i wanted to see the story of multiple murderer henry lee lucas portrayed as some kind of nihilistic hero/antihero . 
thankfully , that's not the way henry works . 
the director , john mcnaughton , took a small budget and a gallery of actor friends and created a chilling and intelligent piece of work . 
it doesn't provide cheap-jack explanations for henry's behavior : it shows him up for what he is , an unrepentant and un-idolizable man who killed when the mood struck him . 
at the film's opening , henry's friend ottis toole has a sister , who comes by to stay while she tries to find work in chicago . 
in a viciously riveting scene , he admits matter-of-factly to having murdered his own mother , and she covers his hand with hers . 
they are damned together from that moment on . 
henry and ottis eventually begin to kill for fun . 
the movie is especially good at showing how they seem to have drifted casually into it : there's a scene where the two go to buy a new tv . 
the pawnbroker they talk to goads henry with ugly words , and henry responds by stabbing the man to death with a soldering iron . 
no preface -- it smashes into us as suddenly as it does the broker . 
in a scene which many damned the movie for , unseen , they steal a video camera and film the murder of a whole household , playing it back over and over again for their own enjoyment . 
the movie itself , however , does not glorify the killings , but shows instead that henry feels no joy at his work , only irritation . 
henry succeeds thanks to excellent writing and direction as well as acting . 
michael rooker is credible as henry from the first frame , just standing there , and the rest of the cast works by being unaffected and casual as well . 
the producers had originally comissioned a slasher film from mcnaughton , but he decided to give them something more memorable , and consequently the film nearly didn't see release . 
the film does not glorify or justify -- it just shows us , with unflinching coldness , what henry was . 
i'm hard pressed to see how anyone can see this and consider henry any kind of " victim " or " hero " . 
then again , probably , so would henry . 
you don't have to know poker to like " rounders , " but it might help . 
that a great deal of this sharp little drama is set in the back rooms of new york's cardshark underground astoundingly doesn't limit its accessibility , even for those who can't tell royal and straight flushes apart . 
 " rounders " ' success , then , is owed to its proficient cast and intriguing portrayal of a world not many viewers will be familiar with . 
the dialogue may be filled with terms that only true players will grasp , but you don't have to speak the language to understand the words - a statement that pretty much sums up the effectiveness of the whole show . 
matt damon , fresh off his " good will hunting " hot streak , is perfect for the role of mike mcdermott , a young law student with a tremendous gift for gambling . 
but after losing all of his tuition money in a killer high-stakes match with russian poker aficionado teddy kgb ( john malkovich , deliciously hammy ) , he shifts his focus to scholarly matters , leaving his true area of expertise far , far behind . 
things change , however , when mike's old buddy worm ( edward norton ) re-enters his life - it seems worm , just out of jail , owes a hefty sum to nasty thugs , and is counting on his friend's superlative skills to help him pay off the debt . 
that " rounders " ' story quickly molds itself into a conventional , predictable tale of redemption doesn't hinder its potency . 
director john dahl , infamous for his neo-noirs " red rock west " and " the last seduction , " gets extremely convincing mileage out of the been-there , done-that plot mechanics by trumping up the relationship between mike and worm . 
damon and norton bring so much to their roles that they'd be worth catching even if " rounders " ultimately folded , but the movie ups its fascinating ante by contrasting their wildly different ways of winning . 
any sequence where the two men sit at the table together is an unarguable highlight . 
if only the other character interaction was as successful , " rounders " might merit consideration when it comes time to number the year's best films . 
current " it girl " gretchen mol is sweetly appealing as mike's girlfriend jo , aware and weary of his seedy past , but her scenes with damon number too few to be very effective . 
john turturro's aging mentor and famke janssen's tempting siren , both interesting sketches , are hampered by the same limited screen time . 
and as a wizened judge , the great martin landau makes memorable a role that's mostly a plot device - he's on hand mostly to sort-of save the day and provide a voice for " rounders " ' moral . 
that moral , by the way , is " our destiny chooses us , " and it's something of a surprise when " rounders " supports this solemn proverb by eschewing the conclusion you might expect ; mike does learn from his mistake , but neither the mistake nor the way he learns from it is what it initially appears to be . 
in the end , " rounders " sees gambling as less a mere addiction than a potential art form , but the poker itself is only a metaphor for a much larger picture . 
the road to true fulfillment lies within the realization and exercising of your natural passions , the movie espouses , no matter what they might be . 
here , low-rent lowlifes like worm just aren't cut out for the cards . 
screenwriters david levien and brian koppelman entertain and educate in their quest to vividly render a culture that's often generalized by movies ; even complete poker neophytes should cross the line from observers to participants when the movie gets to its concluding game scene . 
inside every adventurous filmgoer , there is a desire to be taken someplace new and exciting , and that's the precise allure of " rounders . " 
it ultimately matters not that a few of our tour guides feel partially-realized or that the journey itself is cluttered with sites we've seen before , because the final destination is a satisfying one . 
in the end , " rounders " holds a winning hand . 
melvin van peebles' " sweet sweetback's baadasssss song " was a watershed moment in the history of american cinema and the black movement . 
it was released less than a decade after the civil rights movement had begun and almost twenty years before the rodney king incident . 
its violent and highly sexualized revenge tale of a macho black hustler fighting back against white oppression and winning was something that had never been seen on an american movie screen before . 
in style , content , and how it was conceived and produced , " sweet sweetback " was a cinematic revolution , whether or not one agrees with its subject matter . 
van peebles , a black american who first gained recognition by writing novels in france , built " sweet sweetback " from the ground up almost entirely by himself . 
because no studio would dare fund such a film , he was forced to raise all the money himself . 
the movie ended up costing about $500 , 000 , part of which was put up by none other than bill cosby . 
van peebles cut costs by hiring non-union labor and taking on most of the film's responsibilities himself . 
he wrote the script , scored the music , edited and directed the film , as well as starred in the central role . 
he was also a brilliant entrepreneur who always found a way to make an extra buck . 
for instance , when the mppa slapped the film with a dreaded x-rating , van peebles not only threatened to bring a lawsuit against jack valenti and the mpaa , but he also developed a little marketing scheme : he coined the phrases " rated x by an all-white jury , " which he put on the movie posters to help advertise the film . 
he also printed the phrase on tee-shirts which he had no problem selling . 
the storyline in " sweet sweetback " is deceptively simple . 
it takes place in los angeles , and van peebles stars as the title character , a tough male hustler of few words who grew up in a brothel , and makes money by doing what he does best : having sex . 
one day , he agrees to go with a couple of amiable white cops down to the station to make it look like they're bringing in suspects on a politically-charged case involving murder . 
however , on the way to the station the cops arrest a young black revolutionary named mu-mu ( hubert scales ) , who they proceed to beat viciously . 
acting out of complete impulse rather than political motivation , sweetback fights back and beats the cops to the brink of death . 
the rest of the film follows sweetback as he evades the cops on his way to eventual escape in mexico . 
although the repetition of watching sweetback run gets a little old by the end of the film , this plot allows van peebles' camera to roam the darker side of l . a . - the ghettos , alleys , and back-street whorehouses that other films had always overlooked . 
van peebles' entire point in making the movie was to secure on celluloid a vision of the black experience in america that other filmmakers had ignored . 
at the beginning of " sweet sweetback , " he offers this epigraph , which is a traditional prologue used in medieval times when a messenger brought bad news : " sire , these lines are not an homage to brutality that the artist has invented , but a hymn from the mouth of reality . . . " 
van peebles wanted to make sure that his vision was one of reality , not of exaggeration . 
of course , with today's abundance of rap and hip hop music that sings the same ode to black inner-city life , as well as films by spike lee , john singleton , and the hughes brothers , " sweet sweetback " doesn't seem all that revolutionary . 
it is important to remember that this film must be viewed in the context and time period in which it was made . 
at that time , " sweet sweetback " was so controversial that only two theaters in the entire united states would play it . 
distributors were petrified of a film that , in van peebles' words , gave the black audience " a chance to see some of their own fantasies acted out - about rising out of the mud and kicking ass . " 
of course , once it caught on , it caught on big . 
 " sweet sweetback " is now considered to be the film that kicked off the blaxploitation era , although van peebles disassociates " sweetback " from other movies like " shaft " ( 1972 ) and " the mack " ( 1973 ) , because those were financed by big hollywood studios . 
 " sweet sweetback " is also the only film deemed mandatory viewing by the black panthers . 
however , even if when viewed from an african-american perspective , " sweet sweetback " is certainly not without its controversies . 
when it was first released , an article was published in " ebony " magazine denouncing the film , while at the same time the black panthers used an entire newsletter to praise it . 
there have been arguments that the victory for sweetback is really no victory at all - beating cops and then running away to mexico is nothing to be proud of . 
others have pointed out that sweetback has little to say throughout the film ; he has no political motivations , and therefore the violence and havoc he wreaks is not rooted in fundamental beliefs , but in personal and selfish motives . 
still others point to the clich ? black potency that stereotypes sweetback as being good at nothing but having sex , illustrated in a scene where he gains the respect of a white biker group by bringing their female leader to orgasm . 
nevertheless , a movie like " sweet sweetback " cannot be made without conflicting points of view . 
it is a revolutionary movie not because it's about one man's defiance , but because it put front-and-center black issues that had never been dealt with before . 
until that point , american cinema was an almost exclusively white domain , and with the exception of sidney poitier , all black actors were relegated to specifically black roles that were important only in relation to whites . 
the fact that " sweet sweetback " was a movie by black about blacks , was something new ( in the opening credits , van peebles lists the starring actors as simply " the black community " ) . 
van peebles tells an interesting story that goes a long way toward defining the difference between " sweet sweetback " and all movies that had come before it . 
when the movie first opened , he saw it in a theater next to an older woman . 
near the end of the film , when sweetback is wounded by the police and stumbling through the southern california desert , she kept saying to herself , " oh lord , let him die . 
don't let them kill him . 
let him die on his own . " 
it was so ingrained in her mind that death was imminent for any african-american in a movie who rebelled against white authority , that she couldn't even conceive of the possibility that the film might end with his successful escape . 
and , of course , sweetback does escape , and the screen fills with the message : " watch out ! 
a baad asssss nigger is coming back to collect some dues . " 
beyond the political aspects , " sweet sweetback " is an entertaining picture , which van peebles always intended it to be . 
he squeezed every drop out of his limited budget , and produced a film that , although dated now , was technically fantastic at the time . 
he shot in rough , documentary-like fashion , while also utilizing almost every visual and aural trick his technology would allow him . 
he makes good use of older techniques like split screens , freeze frames , reversed color schemes , and overlapping images . 
the only time the film ever looks bad is during the night sequences , because van peebles simply did not have the needed equipment . 
watching " sweet sweetback " more than twenty-five years after its initial release , one realizes that it still has bite . 
arguments can be made that race relations in the united states have made quantum leaps since the early seventies , but there are still problems that are reflected in this film . 
but there is more to the film than its racial aspect . 
the legacy of " sweet sweetback's baadasssss song " is not only the plentiful amount of art and music told from the african-american perspective , but more importantly , the work of every artist who has fought to fund and produce that which is important to him . 
there seem to be two reactions to dark city . 
you either love it or you are unimpressed . 
count me as a " love it . " 
as good as the crow and spawn are , dark city is better . 
where the former two have a specific comic-book following , the latter is an original work with the potential for broader appeal . 
it has a similar look to the others , but dark city is much more thoughtful and much less violent . 
not clever or complex , the story is still fascinating , like a selection from the twilight zone . 
a man ( rufus sewell ) is awakened in his bathtub by a man with a syringe . 
surprised , the attacker runs off . 
the dazed man gets out of the tub and finds a woman's body in the room . 
a mysterious caller warns him to leave the apartment immediately , so he packs some clothes and leaves , never sure why he's leaving or what he's fleeing . 
ghoulish figures in long coats recognize the man and chase him through the dark city , hounding him like figures in a nightmare . 
an odd blast of willpower allows the man to dream himself free from his pursuers long enough to check his i . d . 
the amnesiac learns that he is not dreaming and that his name is john murdoch . 
now if only he could remember the rest of his life . . . . 
dark city is good on many levels . 
first , the look of the movie is excellent . 
give credit to production designers george liddle and patrick tatopolous for creating a coherent look from diverse elements . 
there are visual elements from the american 1920s-60s , mixed with dickens-era urban industrial elements . 
it is all pulled together in a sad , dark look reminiscent of the diner in edward hopper's painting , nighthawks . 
proyas' use of models gives an appropriately eerie unreality to the film's world ( for not only does the audience see the city a model , but so do the ghouls ) . 
the look is like a cross between tim burton's batman and the bleak animation of the brothers quay . 
second , the editing of the film is good . 
the pacing is on track , and the plot is revealed , the " amnesia " explained , in satisfying increments . 
also , the stylized editing within each scene gives the movie a tense , caffeinated look . 
third , the special effects are well used . 
they look good , but more importantly , the right effects are used for the right job . 
one example stands out in my mind : the coated figures who haunt the city can attack telekinetically . 
a simple ripple effect is used . 
a more showy effect could have been chosen , but then it would have just been gratuitous . 
restraint was shown where necessary , letting the more critical effects look more impressive . 
finally , like gattaca , dark city spends a just a little effort striving for mythical significance . 
unlike gattaca , the story is just open-ended and non-literal enough to be successful . 
john murdoch's recovery from amnesia is tied to the passing of the night , and the hopeful coming of the dawn . 
his struggle with amnesia is both figuratively and literally the struggle of all mankind ( at least in his world ) . 
when we finally see the big picture of the movie's world , it is as mysterious as the iroquois image of the world being carried on the back of a giant turtle . 
a few minor flaws keep me from giving this movie the same perfect score roger ebert gave , but i do strongly recommend it , for its look , its pace , its story , and its timelessness . 
for the first reel of girls town , you just can't get over lili taylor . 
is it possible to remain unperturbed that a woman of this age is playing a high school student ? 
harder still , can you avoid astonishment at how perfect she is in the part ? 
with the sure , showy expertise of a de niro , taylor imbues unwed mother patti with all the faux fuck-you confidence she can muster . 
it's a deeply felt , dead-on performance , and by the halfway point you've forgiven taylor her own maturity . 
for all its verite pretenses , girls town is less about a bunch of high-schoolers than it is about a movie director and a cadre of writer-performers examining their own feelings about rape , relationships , and american womanhood . 
the movie's opening scenes sketch an easy friendship between a group of four smart/sassy high school outsiders on the verge of graduation : patti , angela ( bruklin harris ) , emma ( anna grace ) , and nikki ( aunjanue ellis ) . 
but about 10 minutes into the film , we get word that nikki has swallowed a fistful of pills and bowed out of life . 
the remaining girls manage to smug nikki's diary out of her grieving mother's home , and page through it at patti's place , investigating the root of nikki's despair . 
what they find is cruel and galvanizing -- nikki had been raped by an editor at a newspaper where she interned , and was privately questioning the sanity and value of a world where such a thing could happen . 
shell-shocked by the truth of the matter , the three girls begin to talk among themselves and come to a realization about their own lives . 
emma says she was raped last year on a date with a football player . 
patti's barely sympathetic , wondering what the hell emma thought she was doing with her shirt off in a jock's car . 
and anyway , patti's had her own share of guys who wouldn't take no for an answer . 
pained , acrimonious debate ensues as the trio grow more and more angry -- angry about the impossibility of saying no , and angry with themselves for being weak , for being naive , for putting up with it . 
 " why do we put up with it ? " 
emma finally asks , once the argument has reached a fever pitch . 
 " we try to talk about it , and look what happens . 
we fight for 20 minutes . " 
there's the admirable crux of this picture . 
girls town is a political film , in that it calls for action . 
but it's incomplete-it's never quite sure how to justify that action , or what form it should take . 
the trio become crusaders for their right to dignity , and it's surely one of this year's most stirring movie moments when emma lobs a concrete block through the passenger-side window of that damn jock's car ( doing the right thing ? ) . 
they hang out in the bathroom , chatting incessantly and scrawling slogans and naming names on the door to a toilet stall . 
 " subvert the patriarchy , " emma writes , and then starts a hall of shame list underneath that other students begin to contribute to . 
the girls silence their hecklers , take revenge on the deadbeat father of patti's child , and eventually come face-to-face with nikki's tormentor . 
still , the movie has a desperately unfinished quality , and none of these subsequent exploits is particularly satisfying . 
 ( you keep waiting for someone to call the cops on these brazen girls , but nobody thinks of it . ) 
perhaps searching for a resolution missing from the material at hand , the film borrows its epigraphs from audre lorde and queen latifah ( " who you callin' a bitch ? " ) . 
the points are well taken , but they should have been unnecessary . 
long on characterization but a little short on story , girls town is less than it could have been , and too self-congratulatory for my own taste . 
director jim mckay is best known as a consort of r . e . m . 's 
michael stipe ( he directed the nearly unwatchable tourfilm for that band ) , and girls town is his first foray into feature filmmaking . 
the movie was created and scripted by committee , but mckay and his lead performers had to shoot on a shoestring when , predictably , the group couldn't secure funding . 
then again , girls town on a budget would hardly be the same film . 
the movie's slapdash quality is key to its significance . 
truth be told , all three of the leads look too wise for high school , but that's ok -- there's a once-removed quality to their fine , spontaneous performances , as the women take a very skillful look back at the girls they once were , the girls they wish they had been , or some combination . 
for all its flaws , this one gets extra points for having its uncertain head and heart in the same noble place . 
 " the fighting sullivans " contains a major plot development in the last ten minutes that every movie guide has seen fit to give away . 
there was no dramatic tension for me while watching the film , as i knew exactly what was going to happen . 
and that's the worst thing that can happen before viewing a movie . 
because of this , i will tread lightly so i don't ruin it for anyone reading this review , and it would be very advisable to avoid all other material regarding this film until after you have seen it . 
 " the fighting sullivans " revolves around a family that consists of a mother , father , sister , and five brothers . 
the brothers are very close , despite the occasional disagreement . 
they are inseperable , and never stray from one another . 
their friendship and loyalty is the foundation of this picture . 
the first half of the movie follows the brothers as young children , and their various adventures . 
when four of them get into a fight with some local boys , the youngest sullivan , who is inside a church at the time , comes running out to assist , but not before properly exiting the chapel . 
if i'm being awfully vague about details , it's because what i have told you is essentially the first hour and a half . 
all i can say is go watch this film , because it is a fine portrait of a family that sticks together , through the good and the bad . 
and after you see the movie , you will understand why this review has been written the way it has . 
big courtroom thrillers have always captivated america . 
o . j . 
simpson , tom capano , the menendez brothers . 
all these names are synonymous to americans and courtrooms . 
and , of course , courtroom dramas are not a new topic to hollywood . 
whether it be john grisham's thrilling novels or television's famous dramas , the courtroom has always provided big bucks . 
so when i rented a civil action , i was expecting the film to be like the rainmaker , a brilliant law film that kept viewers on the edge of their seat . 
however , what i saw in a civil action was far different from what i expected , a major surprise , but fortunately , a pleasant one . 
john travolta always seems to come up big when you least expect it . 
no one expected him to light up the screen in grease , nor in saturday night fever . 
but , whenever he gets knocked down , he always seems to come back fighting . 
a civil action is not john's best performance , but a strong one that could rival any performance in 1998 . 
travolta proves that a normal and believable performance can vault a film into oscar nominations . 
his performance is not flashy , nor memorable , just solid . 
if he delivered the only solid performance , this film would still be average . 
luckily , he has a strong supporting cast . 
william h . macy is probably one of the most underrated actors in hollywood . 
he continues to deliver great performances one after the other , but he is still regarded as a secondary actor . 
in a civil action , he delivers yet another great performance as travolta's paranoid and greedy accountant . 
he is not a lovable character , but a character who stands out in your mind whenever you think of the film . 
he is not one of the big time lawyers , just a measly accountant . 
but , he delivers one of the best supporting roles of 1998 , but there is actually someone better in a civil action . 
robert duvall is also an underrated actor . 
he gets many leading roles , but is never heard when you hear of big box office draws like tom hanks , brad pitt and jim carrey . 
duvall has a supporting role in this as a lawyer of the co-defendant . 
duvall is magical in this role . 
he is the wise teacher , who not only battles it out in the courtroom , but also manages to teach every major player a lesson , in his own twisted way . 
in many non-comedic films , directors are always trying to find a way to implement a touch of comedy , to keep the audience on their toes . 
unfortunately , they usually just key in on one character whose main objective is to be funny ( jar-jar binks , anyone ? ) . 
however , this usually backfires because the character is never fully developed . 
this is not the case in a civil action . 
they have comedy coming from all sides . 
whether it be duvall's inane questions or macy's sharp anger , the laughs come in a steady pace . 
granted , it's not roll in the aisle funny , but it provides a nice addition to the film . 
the plot is terrific- somewhat . 
the setup is nice with the film actually starting with a victory in the courtroom . 
then the case that will make or break jan ( travolta ) 's career rears its ugly head . 
they find out the goldmine involved with the case and wind up taking it . 
however , budgets soon flounder and jan finds himself in deep debt . 
i will not spoil the rest , although i must speak of the one downside to the film . 
the courtroom debates are great , but the actual problem they are fighting for is never fully explored . 
it left me somewhat confused , although the rest of the film is terrific . 
all in all , john travolta is back yet again in this great film . 
his supporting cast , consisting of macy and duvall , turn in tremendous performances , which ease the load on travolta . 
the film is smart , witty and thought provoking . 
not only does it gauge in-court battles , but also the various tolls it can take on the major players . 
a civil action provides everything a drama lover craves . 
time bandits , from director terry gilliam , is a very different fantasy action/adventure movie about a group of time-traveling dwarves , led by randall ( david rappaport ) , who have stolen a map of the universe . 
this map contains time hole , that , if exploited , enable the men to travel back and forth through time . 
the supreme being of the universe ( ralph richardson ) is the former employer of these treasure-seeking bandits , and he wishes desperately to regain the map . . 
during the travels , he appears as a ghostly face , demanding that they return the map that they have stolen . 
but , according to randall , they are just " borrowing " it . 
kevin , a young boy who seems quite bored with his life , is unexpectedly brought into the schemes of the little men when they appear in his room , which has a portal for time traveling . 
he joins up with the men and becomes part of their gang , following them on their robberies . 
their first victim is napoleon ( ian holm ) , whom they rob during a battle that he is commanding . 
from here , the group travels to the middle ages , meeting up with robin hood himself . 
eventually , kevin is separated from the group and travels to an egyptian time where he is taken in by king agamemnon , played by sean connery . 
kevin accidentally saved the king's life , and the king wishes to have kevin as his son . 
but the group of bandits find kevin and transport onto the deck of the titanic . 
meanwhile , the evil genius ( david warner ) is watching the group from fortress of ultimate darkness , attempting to find a way in order to bring the men , and the map , to him . 
when randall learns of the fortress of ultimate darkness , which supposedly contains " the most fabulous object in the world " , the dollar signs seemingly appear on his eyes , as he is convinced that they must travel there . 
once inside the fortress of ultimate darkness , it is unclear as to if any of the men will make it out alive . 
time bandits is a fantastically made film that caters to the imagination of anyone . 
with a terrific soundtrack , courtesy of george harrison , whom also was an executive producer , time bandits is sure to be a very surrealistic , time-traveling adventure with unforgettable characters that is sure to entertain anyone . 
terry gilliam , however , does not utilize that greatly his trademark ability in moviemaking during this film , although this does not affect the film that greatly . 
and finally , if you liked labyrinth , you'll love time bandits . 
it seemed wholly appropriate that at a weekend screening of " the horse whisperer , " the start of the film was delayed some twenty minutes due to " projection difficulties . " 
robert redford's film version of nicholas evans' best-selling novel was supposed to have been in theaters last december , going head-to-head with " titanic , " but is only now making its much anticipated debut . 
this ( strategic ? ) 
delay has allowed " the horse whisperer " to compete , sans fanfare , against some smaller , unassuming movies during a relatively slower time at the box office . 
no matter . 
redford's film stands head and shoulders above james cameron's ocean-going tragedy , especially in the writing and acting departments . 
whatever the reasons for its postponement , " the horse whisperer " supports the old adage " better late than never . " 
redford has taken evans' book and given it the big screen treatment . 
while parts of " the horse whisperer " are epic in scope and vision , especially the aerial " travelogue " that maps out this great country of ours , its real strength lies in the subtleties it uses to paint the fragile alliance between man and beast . 
when her daughter , grace , is involved in a terrible riding accident , hard-driven fashion editor annie maclean ( kristin scott thomas ) devotes herself to rehabilitating both grace and grace's beloved horse , pilgrim . 
refusing to have the hideously disfigured animal put down , annie researches every possible source of information about equine cures before discovering an article about a faith-healing cowboy of sorts called tom booker ( redford ) , who has a way with horses and , perhaps , with people too . 
undeterred by tom's initial reluctance to get involved , annie drives grace and a sedated pilgrim across country to meet him , and finally persuades tom to work with the uncontrollable animal . 
redford's film unfolds slowly and lovingly , echoing the patience required in healing both physical and psychological wounds . 
the film's a little long and , even if you haven't read the book , it's pretty obvious where it's heading--but these are minor complaints . 
redford and thomas are strong and convincing as the couple drawn by a mutual affection for the great outdoors and each other , but it's scarlett johansson as grace who shines in a more difficult role . 
dianne wiest , chris cooper ( " lone star " ) , and sam neill--better than i've seen him before--round out the respectable supporting cast . 
and the director's respect for horses is clearly in evidence . 
one word of warning , however : while brilliantly shot , the accident scene , involving an out-of-control truck , is extremely disturbing . 
redford's canvas is huge and exquisite . 
he doesn't hesitate to incorporate vast , sprawling vistas of the american northwest : spectacular , snow-capped mountain ranges , azure skies , and shimmering fields of wheat--all are resplendent in cinematographer robert richardson's viewfinder . 
veteran english composer john barry was originally signed to score the film but left the project which is a pity , since " the horse whisperer " is " dances with wolves " by way of " out of africa " ( oscar winners both for barry ) . 
fortunately , barry's replacement , thomas newman , contributes a fine score that nicely balances the majesty of montana with the delicate , human conditions--sonorous , string-laden passages that swell with pride playing counterpoint to more poetic , introspective movements ripe with nuance . 
 " the horse whisperer " is that rare kind of movie : it looks good , it feels good , and by golly it does you good . 
the wait , it turns out , was well worth it . 
charlie sheen stars as zane , a radio astronomer who listens for sounds from other lifeforms . 
when he finally gets one , his boss destroys the tape and fires him . 
naturally , zane is not ready to give up , and he comes up with an ingenious way to do this himself . 
he is aided by a young neighborhood kid and they discover that the sound is coming from mexico . 
so zane goes down there to investigate , and runs into a lady studying why the temperature of the earth has dangerously risen so suddenly . 
zane is having marital problems at the time , and an offer by her to spend the night with him is very tempting . 
hearing charlie sheen deliver the line , " i guess there is something to be said for celibacy " is the funniest thing i have ever heard in a movie since matthew broderick discussed asexual reproduction in wargames . 
this is just the setup , and i don't want to give too much away , because a large part of the movies fun is the surprises . 
charlie sheen , who has had a rocky career as of late , is in top form here . 
he is funny , serious , and determined to accomplish his goal . 
sheen's absolutely terrific performance is another big plus to this movie . 
the story is ingeniously devised by twohy , who also wrote and directed the equally clever cable movie grand tour : disaster in time . 
the films major flaw is a very slow pace , and not much happens in the earlygoings . 
viewers may be growing restless for a while , but trust me if you stick around and keep your head in it , you will have a good time . 
field of dreams almost defies description . 
although it's about baseball , it's not a baseball movie . 
although the film is extremely spiritual , it's not about religion . 
and although field of dreams is melodramatic , it's not a tearjerker . 
to really understand what field of dreams is all about , you have to see it . 
in the film , kevin costner plays ray kinsella , a baseball fan , '60s berkeley graduate , and iowa farmer . 
one day as he is standing in the middle of his expansive corn fields , ray hears a voice ; it tells him : " if you build it , he will come . " 
then ray has a vision and somehow concludes that if he builds a baseball field in the middle of his corn , shoeless joe jackson will arise from the dead to play ball once again . 
and even though it depletes his family's savings and his neighbors think he's crazy , ray clears away the corn and builds a baseball field , complete with bleachers and flood lights . 
 " if you build it , he will come . " 
and lo and behold , shoeless joe does come--bringing with him several of his dead teammates . 
and then ray hears the voice again ; it tells him to " ease his pain . " 
ray thinks this means that he must travel to boston to meet terence mann , an influential and radical novelist from the '60s who has since stopped writing and dropped out of society . 
with great aplomb , james earl jones plays the disillusioned author who joins forces with ray and embarks with him on a magical and spiritual journey . 
the cast in field of dreams is excellent , especially kevin costner in the lead role . 
costner gives a quiet , subtle , and moving performance as a man who before building the baseball field had done nothing crazy or spontaneous in his entire life . 
costner gives ray just the right mix of enthusiasm and idealism to make us believe in his mystic visions and swallow this wondrous fairy tale . 
amy madigan gives a fine supporting performance as ray's feisty and loving wife , who against her better judgement supports her husband's crazy ideas . 
in her most impressive scene , madigan vehemently argues against book burning at a p . t . a . 
meeting , displaying the sincere passion of a '60s berkeley radical . 
ray liotta is appropriately eerie and awe-inspiring as the ghost of shoeless joe , the legendary batter who was suspended from baseball for his involvement in the 1919 chicago " black sox " scandal . 
and finally , burt lancaster is memorable in a small , but important , role as a small town doctor whose professional baseball career was limited to only one inning . 
field of dreams is a touching fairy tale full of life , wonder , mystery , spirit , and humor . 
it , for the most part , succeeds in capturing our emotions and suspending our disbelief . 
ray kinsella's spiritual quest in pursuit of his dreams proves to be moving and miraculous . 
but while field of dreams generally avoids excessive melodrama , it unfortunately does at times go overboard , and by the end it gets down-right sappy . 
in general , however , field of dreams is an emotionally satisfying fantasy--one i can recommend to everyone but unromantic cynics . 
making a sequel to a widely beloved film is a weighty proposition indeed , especially when the first film is considered by many to be a masterpiece . 
when it comes to living up to expectations , a filmmaker is almost doomed to some degree of failure . 
for a sequel to live up to or even surpass the original's greatness is very rare indeed . 
and whereas " babe : pig in the city " misses equaling the greatness of its best picture nominated predecessor babe , it is a worthy companion piece . 
more than that , it is a spectacular work of art that deserves to stand alone in its own right . 
 " babe : pig in the city " warrants the classification of being recognized with such classics like " the godfather : part ii " and " the empire strikes back " as being one of the greatest sequels ever produced . 
 " babe : pig in the city " picks up precisely where " babe " left off . 
having won the sheep herding competition , farmer hoggett ( james cromwell ) and his pig are elevated to fame status . 
a series of unfortunate circumstances and hilariously freakish events leads to mrs . hoggett taking babe from the small country farm into the big city . 
in doing so , the film transports us into a wonderfully imaginative world that simultaneously mirrors and exceeds the creative design seen in the original . 
 " babe : pig in the city " flourishes where so many sequels fail . 
most sequels simply rehash the events of the first film . 
not " babe : pig in the city " . 
this is a completely original tale that offers up a story drastically different than the first . 
also , by not being content to utilize most of the old characters , this film gives us many new ones to enjoy . 
in essence , it doesn't attempt to copy itself . 
instead , it strives to achieve an originality of its own . 
and it succeeds . 
that's not to say the familiar is absent . 
 " babe : pig in the city " retains some of the best core elements and characters from the first film . 
along with babe himself , ferdinand the duck comes along for the ride , as does mrs . hoggett ( one of this decade's best and most underappreciated comic characterizations , hilariously performed by magda szubanski ) . 
the three singing mice also make the journey , chiming in with their cute high-pitched vocals . 
the story structure is also similar as each segment is introduced with title cards read by the aforementioned mice . 
from there , we are guided once again by roscoe lee browne's soothingly deep narrative . 
composer nigel westlake also returns with his whimsical music style that is perfect for cinematic fables such as these . 
but these elements are simply the frame that surrounds an entirely new painting . 
while staying at the flealands hotel , babe encounters a veritable ark-full of new animals . 
monkeys , kittens , and dogs of various breeds and sizes are some of the new " urbanites " that babe befriends , as well as some wonderfully comical pelicans that ferdinand the duck happens to encounter . 
each character is distinctly unique , some of which are imbued with personal human-like struggles that are endearing and touching . 
and while this world focuses largely on these animals , we are introduced to two new human characters as well . 
mary stein plays the owner of the flealands hotel , an animal-loving young spinster who harbors these lost creatures much to the dismaying anger of her fellow neighbors . 
stein's landlady is a wonderfully odd caricature . 
we also meet fugly floom , an old soft-spoken clown who owns many of the animals in the flealands hotel , utilizing them as a part of the act that he performs at different parties and functions . 
not having known who portrayed fugly floom prior to seeing the film , it came as an unexpected pleasant surprise to see who it was . 
so as not to ruin this well-kept secret , i won't reveal the actor's identity here . 
it was a treat indeed to see one of cinema's legends grace the screen again in what was a superbly gentle and heartwarming performance . 
the greatest triumph of " babe : pig in the city " is the art direction . 
simply put--it bleeds creativity , taking the look of the original film to a whole new level . 
restricted primarily to a farm the first time around , this second installment creates an entire city , dazzling us with unique fable-like architecture . 
but the stroke of pure genius by production designer roger ford is his use of our world's architectural landmarks . 
designing a skyline that includes the statue of liberty , the sydney opera house , the brooklyn bridge , the hollywood sign and the eiffel tower , ford has created a singular city that encompasses all of our cities ( as seen in the film photo and pre-production drawing to your right ) . 
added to that , many of this city's streets are the twin siblings of venice's gondola-trekked rivers . 
the metropolis that has sprung from ford's vision is a wondrous sight to behold . 
it is a world that you want to walk around in . 
norma moriceau's costume designs belong in this world , vibrant in color and style equal to that of the ford's landscape . 
most of the costumes are imaginatively cartoonish , with the most exotically grand design going to that of fugly floom's clown outfit . 
andrew lesnie's photography captures these elements with various lighting moods that are beautifully effective in creating the film's multiple emotional tones . 
much press fodder has been made over the weeks leading up to the release of " babe : pig in the city " . 
reports stated that its original cut was branded with a pg-13 rating . 
these reports were discovered to be false as it was assigned a pg rating . 
but even so , to be anything harsher than the original' s g rating had many parents and fans up in arms . 
by deleting a minimal number of shots , " babe : pig in the city " was eventually given the coveted g rating . 
although appeased , many fans were still concerned that it would be too dark , fearing that the film may have come to be possessed by tim burton himself . 
well , to coin a phrase , the reports of " babe : pig in the city " 's death at the hands of a dark , scary , felliniesque interpretation have been greatly exaggerated . 
granted it has its moments of pseudo-morbidity , but all-in-all " babe : pig in the city " is the funny and charming adventure that everyone was hoping it would be . 
whatever " dark " moments it may have can be attributed to director george miller ( the " mad max " trilogy , " the witches of eastwick " , " lorenzo's oil " ) . 
having served as a producer and co-writer on the first film , miller moves into the director's chair for this one , putting his own unique sense of style into this budding franchise . 
the story of " babe : pig in the city " is an enchanting yarn , but one that doesn't achieve the emotional or character depth of the original . 
missing here is the attempt to broach such heady themes as personal identity , an individual's worth , challenging conformity , and one's purpose in life . 
 " babe " dealt with this weighty subject matter , creating a timeless fable . 
 " babe : pig in the city " should not have rehashed these themes , but i do wish it would have attempted to explore new ones . 
this film is not bereft of moral or message as it parallels such issues as urban strife , class differences , sacrificial courage , and so on . 
but this film's goals aren't as lofty as the first's , instead choosing to take a more straightforward approach , allowing its themes to take a back seat to an exciting , sometimes intense , fable adventure that is undeniably clever and inventive . 
 " babe : pig in the city " also decides against developing a relationship to the level of which was present in the first film , specifically the one between farmer hoggett and babe . 
hoggett's love for babe , which grew ever so gently , is what gave that film its charming and endearing quality . 
best exemplified in hoggett's dance for babe , this moving relationship was truly unique . 
it is something that i wish would have been present again ( and could have through fugly floom ) , but was not . 
please understand , these are not negative criticisms , per se' , but simply statements of what i see as the differences between " babe : pig in the city " being a very good film and the original being a great one . 
but having said that , these observations are minor critiques at best . 
as an overall piece , " babe : pig in the city " is a thoroughly enchanting and entertaining fable from beginning to end . 
sure , it isn't a great film , but it is an excellent one that possesses elements of greatness . 
it is a film that is magical with its charm and humor , exciting in its adventurous exploits , funny with its dry wit and cute voices , and breathtaking in its presentation . 
 " babe : pig in the city " may not be moviemaking at its absolute best , but it is on level of cinematic quality that is rarely achieved or seen in cinema . 
as a result , if you choose to let this film pass you by , you will be missing of the year's best cinematic treats . 
let me first say that the conditions that i was forced to watch the matrix under were less than ideal . 
so i have tried to be as fair as possible considering that my viewing experience was significantly less than ideal . 
i watched the matrix in a theater that is in serious need of upgrades at the best of times . 
under no circumstances , should it have ever been allowed to show a big budget special effects laden film like the matrix . 
this theater , owned by the parent company of one of hollywood's biggest studios , hasn't even graduated into stereo sound yet . 
the mono sound that the audience was subjected to sounded as if it was coming out of a speaker that was many years past mandatory retirement age . 
in other words , the sound sucked . 
as someone used to digital sound in a movie theater , bad sound doesn't do anything to add to a film . 
i'm not even going to go into the horrible splicing job that the projectionist did putting this film together . 
there , i've had my rant , now on with the regularly scheduled review . 
which sadly won't include commentary on the film's sound which i'm assuming was spectacular , but i'm just guessing . 
my guess on the sound seems like a fairly solid one considering the visual quality of the matrix . 
it is nothing short of stunning visually . 
sadly , the rest of the film , while pretty good , doesn't quite measure up to the obvious effort that was expended on making this film look so darn good . 
the matrix has at it's core a good concept , although it strays into the confusing side more often than i would have liked . 
keanu reeves plays a computer hacker who is drawn into the frightening realization that reality is just a hoax . 
it turns out that that many years ago the world was devastated by some sort of disaster . 
now machines run the planet and humans spend their lives in a sort of incubator , plugged into a computer network . 
the computers are generating a virtual reality world which is a representation of the earth before it was destroyed . 
the population of the planet never realizes that their entire life is a hoax and that they really spend their entire lives as comatose . 
that is except a small band who have discovered this horrible secret and have escaped their virtual prisons . 
they now spend their lives combating the computers in an effort to expose this lie . 
reeve's character , neo , is recruited by this band of rebels led by morpheus ( laurence fishburne ) . 
newcomer carrie-anne moss and one of hollywood's most underrated actors , joe pantoliano , join fishburne in the band of freedom-fighters . 
the action sequences are nothing short of spectacular . 
this can be attributed as much to the amazing special effects as to many of the actor's extensive pre-production training in martial arts . 
this lends itself to some of the best martial arts sequences that you are ever likely to see in a film . 
when you add this to some of the wild effects in the computer generated world , it all adds up to an eyeful . 
as i already said , the visuals far outpace the rest of the film . 
acting in the matrix is not bad , but it certainly isn't real good either . 
keanu reeves gives his usual fairly emotionless performances . 
although to his credit , it is one of his better performances . 
laurence fishburne on the other hand often seemed to forget that he was in a sci-fi action film . 
more than a few times he delivered his lines as if he thought he was performing in some sort of shakespearean drama . 
joe pantoliano was a little under used in this film but he made the most with what he had . 
carrie-anne moss turned out a surprisingly good performance for this her first feature film role . 
it's nice to see that she was cast as much for her talent as for her breathtaking looks . 
you have to give all of the main actors a healthy dose of credit for the work that they obviously put into the physical training for their roles in this film . 
it was clear that no small effort went into getting the moves down perfectly for the fighting sequences . 
i also put much of the blame for the somewhat strained performances in the matrix on the dialogue , which was terrible at times . 
in more than a few places it got way too existential for my liking and at other times it was just plain weird . 
it almost seems as though the writers were having a difficult time trying to figure out how to explain the concept for the movie . 
so they decided to make the dialogue as obtuse as possible so that no one could figure out what the heck they were talking about . 
thereby covering up any leaps of faith that they may have had to make in the departments of logic and believability . 
my other major complaint with the matrix was with the very unsatisfying ending . 
the setup for it was hokey and frankly used in many a bad film before . 
the ending itself was just plain strange . 
the main reasons to recommend the matrix are the visual effects and computer animation which make this a real treat to watch . 
while the rest of the film ( acting , dialogue and to a degree plot ) detract from the high production values , they don't detract enough to prevent me from recommending the matrix as a fun way to spend an evening . 
alchemy is steeped in shades of blue . 
kieslowski's blue , that is . 
with its examination of death , isolation , character restoration , and recovery from loss , suzanne myers' new independent film echoes the polish director's internationally-acclaimed 1993 release . 
language aside , the principal difference between the films is that , while kieslowski took great pains to draw us into the main character's world , alchemy keeps its viewers at arm's length . 
as a result , while we're able to appreciate the film's intellectual tapestry , it is emotionally distant . 
alchemy is divided into three chapters : " charity " , " faith " , and " hope " . 
while there are common themes and story elements running through all three , the single constant is the main character , a sculptor/russian translator named louisa ( rya kihlstedt ) . 
when the film opens , she's living with her painter boyfriend , whom she believes to be cheating on her . 
following his sudden death in an automobile accident , louisa's life is thrown into turmoil . 
events swirls around her , and she can't find a source of stability . 
in her quest to make sense out of her loss , she befriends her late boyfriend's mistress , visits her ill sister , and , eventually , abandons her old life by joining a " back-to- nature " cult . 
alchemy successfully explores a variety of compelling issues . 
in addition to asking the basic question of how a person should cope with the unexpected death of a loved one , it probes beneath the surface of concepts like the importance of faith in the healing process , the meaning of love , and the nature of art . 
does personality restoration come through interacting with others or escaping from the familiar ? 
are artistic epiphanies the result of focused solitude or of living life , with all of its various distractions , to the fullest ? 
myers' challenge is to make these subjects , art film staples , engrossing in a new context . 
through louisa's struggles , she succeeds . 
while alchemy isn't always emotionally appealing , it never loses its fascination . 
even when we're not connecting with louisa , who is often more of a locus for ideas than a fully-developed personality , there's enough material on-screen to hold our attention . 
the cinematography is stunning . 
city scenes are tinted with blue , adding a cold , bleak dimension to the film's early portions . 
later , when louisa reaches the " wilderness " , we're treated to a dazzling array of autumnal splendor -- brightly-colored leaves in the trees and on the ground . 
it's a startling-but-effective visual contrast that emphasizes the changes taking place in louisa's life as she travels the road back to emotional stability . 
the title refers to the practice of a group of mystical faith- healers who use " alchemy " to provide for the needs of the body and soul . 
and , although louisa partakes of their peculiar brand of medicine , it's ultimately love and companionship , not alchemy , that brings solace . 
her pain is assuaged only when she lets go of the belief that the inherent safety of being alone is life's ultimate goal . 
even though louisa's final transformation lacks the impact it could have possessed had she been a more vital character , it's still an intriguing and enlightening process to watch . 
alchemy isn't pure magic , but , especially during its best moments , it's close . 
who would have thought ? 
jim carrey does drama . 
when i first saw the advertisement for the truman show , i thought , " what a hilarious idea for a movie ! " 
however , it was an even better premise for a drama . 
the truman show takes us into a world that revolves around one man . 
that man is truman burbank ( jim carrey ) . 
truman has no clue what is really going on in his world and frankly , cristof wants to keep it that way . 
christof is the " god " of this made-up world . 
he keeps everything running and gives the actors their roles . 
there were a few attempts to tell truman about his world , but they failed and life went on as normal . 
the opening parts of the film introduce to truman's world . 
we see what he is doing at his current age , then we get a flashback at his past . 
it may seem a tad boring , but it is so intriguing that you will fall in love with the film right from the start . 
the film can be described in one word : weird . 
it seems like such a simple idea , yet it is something that a majority of us would never think of , but andrew niccol did . 
it seems like a warped idea , but it is andrew's idea and he did wonders with it . 
jim carrey actually lived up to the hype . 
the hype , whether good or bad , always focused on carrey's ability to do drama . 
no one doubted how extraordinary this film could be , the only thing they doubted was carrey . 
and he showed them all up . 
jim carrey was snubbed at the oscars . 
i do not think he was the best actor , but he deserved the nomination . 
he plays truman burbank , the unsuspecting star of the most popular television show in the world . 
he has lived a normal life for almost thirty years , but then strange things start happening . 
he ventures into the wrong elevator . 
a light crashes in front of him . 
his father comes back and is then pulled away . 
we are constantly teased with all of this and we know it is a show , but truman does not . 
and it is just a constant progression that never gets sluggish . 
carrey is able to shed his comedy to play a major role in a major drama . 
laura linney is magnificent as the camera hungry wife . 
she plays her role as advertiser and budding star to a point . 
peter weir does not make the cast perfect , and their flaws eventually lead to truman's escape . 
the story unfolds until the show becomes too big and everything crashes down . 
despite carrey's greatness , the best performance in the truman show undoubtedly is turned in by ed harris , who plays the " god " of truman's world . 
he displays the pressure he is under , the world he has created . 
he becomes so paranoid that he believes he is a god and that truman has him to thank for his sham of a life . 
the action moves at a good pace , and rarely gets sluggish . 
but , the main point of the film is how it looks like a television show . 
it really makes you think . 
maybe your brother is an actor , maybe your best friend is in heated contract negotiations to stay on the show . 
some of the best parts of the film are when truman ventures into the wrong elevator and sees cast members drinking coffee and talking . 
or when truman tunes into the wrong station and hears orders being said for truman's arrival . 
and when christof focuses in on truman and cues the dramatic music as marlon ( noah emmerich ) delivers his dramatic line . 
all of these ideas are just perfect for the film and extremely innovative . 
i was not only enjoying the film , i was overwhelmed by genius of it . 
overall , the truman show is one of the freshest and innovative films to come out of hollywood . 
jim carrey shows that he is not just a man of a million faces , but a legitimate actor who could go down as one of the best . 
andrew niccol is responsible for the screenplay and peter weir pulled it off to perfection . 
the truman show is a must see for anyone who likes movies in general because they will be thoroughly impressed by this creative film . 
capsule : this is a harrowing look at a rarely dramatized chapter of wwii , life in a japanese prison camp . 
to end all wars is a moving film about the struggle of prisoners to retain their humanity and their dignity . 
the somewhat religious interpretation may not be to everyone's taste . 
 , +3 ( -4 to +4 ) 
more than any other people the japanese seem capable of acting with one goal and not letting any other consideration get in their way . 
this may be a holdover from the code of bushido when loyalty to ones master was the only law . 
during world war ii , of course , the one goal was winning the war . 
this led them to do some very inhuman things in pursuit of that goal . 
when the japanese had captured prisoners , they were very much treated in whatever way would be optimum for achieving the one goal . 
minimum resources were to be spent in maintaining prisoners in keeping with maximal positive output . 
while the germans , not known for their kindness in those days , had a 6% mortality rate among captured prisoners of war , the mortality rate of japanese prisoners of war was 27% . 
the best thing for the war effort was working prisoners nearly to death on the thailand to burma railroad . 
that railroad was needed if japan was to attack india as it planned to do . 
the best thing for the effort was not to waste much food on the prisoners so short and amazingly wretched food was the order of the day . 
and just being in the jungle without proper medical aid took its toll . 
in the public mind japan has never been held as accountable for war atrocities as was germany . 
filmmakers have been reticent to tell the story , perhaps for fear of offending the japanese . 
there are comparatively few films about the japanese pow camps . 
certainly there was david lean's the bridge on the river kwai . 
there were some low-budget british exploitation films and that was about it . 
then there were tv series " a town like alice " and " tenko . " 
lest the experience be forgotten we have a new film to end all wars directed by david cunningham and written by brian godawa . 
it is based on the account of ernest gordan who survived the horror of that world war ii prison camp and went on to become for 26 years the dean of the chapel at princeton university . 
the film while realistic shows the conditions in the camp as being considerably more brutal and sadistic than bridge on the river kwai portrayed them . 
the story opens with six or so soldiers being marched into the prison camp only to be immediately placed in front of a firing squad . 
it turns out to be a grim joke , one of many that the sadistic japanese play to amuse themselves . 
beating and torture are commonplace events . 
men already imprisoned tell the new arrivals to enjoy the last of their health ; it will not last long with parasites and disease almost inevitable . 
however , unlike as in kwai , the prisoners want to avoid going to the hospital , called by the prisoners the death house . 
so goes a war within a war with the prisoners trying to maintain their humanity and with the japanese trying to make them interchangeable and highly expendable cogs in a rail-laying machine . 
this is more than just a battle of who will win the war but a battle of ideologies . 
the japanese believe that the individual is nothing , that conformity to group's norms is all that gives a life meaning . 
conformity is purpose . 
before the film is over there will be some surprising revelations about the character of the prisoners and the character of those running the camp . 
if this story showed nothing but sadism from the japanese it would be one kind of story . 
if the british ( with one american , by the way ) and the japanese learned to respect each other it would be another kind of story . 
it is neither . 
it is a stirring and believable account of camp life . 
the color has been distorted in the film to give a washed out yellow . 
this serves a double purpose for cunningham . 
it gives an effect of technicolor film that has been left in heat . 
it also creates a distancing effect . 
the only touch that seems a little out of place is the use of gaelic music . 
this is a powerful and philosophical view of the prison camp experience . 
i rate it a 9 on the 0 to 10 scale and a +3 on the -4 to +4 scale . 
another 'independent film' , this comedy , which was brought by miramax for $5 million , is good fun . 
favreau and vaughn ( the lost world : jurassic park , 1997 ) play mike and trent , two everyday 20somethings on the lookout for women . 
the film just basically follows their plight on the lookout for lurve , and along the way we get to meet some of their friends , see their attempts at chatting up girls , and just basically get a insight into their lives . 
and all of this is great fun . 
swingers doesn't rely on huge special effects , or big name stars to provide entertainment . 
no , it just has a great script and superb little known actors . 
the script , by favreau , is great . 
mike is always missing is girlfriend , who hasn't called him for six months , and every time he meets a girl , he always end up telling her about the ex . 
the audience feels for this pathetic little man , thanks to the great script . 
vaughn is 'the money' ( swingers speak for 'the best' ) as the womanizing trent , always on the lookout for a new girl . 
some of his chat-up lines are awful , but he always seems to get the girl thanks to his 'hard man' nature . 
vaughns character also gets the best laugh in the film , towards the end in a diner . 
the conversations that go on between mike and trent are great , but it never quite reaches tarantino standards ( which i suspect the film was trying to reach . ) 
there are some excellent , laugh out loud jokes in the film , and some superbly funny set pieces ( such as favreau cringe-worhy battle with a answer machine that always cut him off before he finishes his sentence . 
embarrassing to him , hilarious to the audience . ) 
mike & trents friends are also good , although there characters seem a bit underwritten , and we never really learn as much as we would like about them . 
although this is primarily mike and trents film , it would of been nice to learn a bit more about their friends . 
they just seem to wander aimlessly in the background . 
but again , the lines they say are usually pretty good , and they do have some funny parts . 
it's just a shame that they didn't have more meatier roles . 
the acting is superb . 
as said above , vaughn is superb as trent , he's definitely the best thing in the film . 
favreau is also good , acting as 'the little man' very well , and the way he always feels sorry for himself is very funny . 
graham ( boogie nights , 1997 ) has a small but good role as lorraine , a girl mike finally falls in love with . 
she hardly features in the film at all , but she still manages to make an impact on the audience . 
swingers , then , is funny , but it does have some flaws . 
firstly , the running time is a bit too short . 
the film comes to an abrupt halt , and i actually wanted the film to carry on longer . 
it never really comes to a satisfying conclusion , which is a shame , as most films are too long ! 
also , this type of film has been done too many times , such as sleep with me ( 1994 ) . 
but these small flaws don't really spoil what is a funny , entertaining comedy . 
a frequent error is the categorization of a terrorist as a soldier or a common criminal . 
a soldier commits acts of violence sanctioned by one nation-state against another . 
a common criminal commits acts of violence for personal gain . 
a terrorist employs random violence as a means to a political end . 
if the target nation does not affect the desired change in policy , the violence continues . 
it is the fear resulting from the fact that the terrorist may strike at anyone ( even total innocents ) , anywhere , at anytime that gives the figure his label . 
edward zwick's the siege explores the possibility of this kind of violence taking place right here in the united states . 
you'd think the opening bit was ripped right from the headlines . 
arab terrorists kill american citizens abroad , and the u . s . responds by retaliating against the sheik whom supposedly ordered the attack . 
however , unlike the real-life tomahawk cruise missile strike against bin laden's camp and manufacturing facility , the film version depicts special operations troops kidnapping sheik ahmed bin talal . 
in retaliation , the terrorists bring the fight to the new world . 
unwittingly involved is fbi assistant special agent-in-charge anthony hubbard ( denzel washington ) , who works out of the bureau's new york office at one federal plaza . 
while investigating a series of bombings in the big apple , he encounters cia agent elise kraft ( annette bening ) , also trying to uncover information . 
generally , the fbi is charged with problems inside the u . s . , while the cia takes care of problems in the international realm . 
even spies from other countries are off limits to the cia as long as they are in our country . 
hubbard therefore finds it highly unusual that an agency spook is nosing around what he considers his territory , but as the two form a tentative professional relationship , hubbard becomes more and more aware of an increasingly complicated series of allegiances and possibly illegal actions involving terrorism and the united states government . 
the original tagline for patriot games was , " there has never been a terrorist attack on american soil . " 
however true , it was pulled before the movie's release because it sounded too much like a dare . 
revisiting the scenario of foreign terrorists committing acts of violence in the united states , the siege is almost an invitation in itself , because it shows just what kind of turmoil could be produced if an effective terrorist network were to set up operations here in america . 
admittedly , the terror wrought upon new york is a bit excessive ( who's going to believe that a few bombs are going to cause new yorkers to jump at the backfire of a bus or to curtail their shopping by two-thirds ? ) , but the basic premise is still valid . 
i liked the fact that this film rises above the basic action-thriller fare of good guy g-men against bad guy terrorists by exploring some of the effects on society and law and order . 
it provides a very possible hypothesis that violent activity on the part of a few arabs would escalate into a series of hate crimes against the arab-american population , and that in an effort to find the terrorists , the civil liberties of the minority may be violated by the government itself . 
in fact , about halfway through the film , when the president authorizes the declaration of martial law within new york city , the liberties of all americans are put at risk . 
although it may actually be a side effect of a terrorist campaign , the demise of social order in america is a scary thought and a goal which would not be beneath many international terrorist groups . 
throughout , the film maintains a conflict between hubbard , who wants to use the fbi to pursue the terrorists within the letter of the law , and general devereaux ( bruce willis ) , who is in command of the army and of the mind that the greater good would be better served by suspending the law and pursuing the terrorists more forcefully . 
what results is a fascinating debate over the appropriateness and constitutionality of the declaration of martial law and the invocation of the war powers act , utilizing philosophy and historical examples to make points on both sides . 
it actually gets rather heady at times , but it's a credit to screenwriters zwick , lawrence wright , and menno meyjes that they don't underestimate the intelligence of the audience . 
i don't know if it's his tone or inflection or something else , but denzel washington has a way of spitting out dialog that makes whatever he says sound great . 
this , combined with his innate acting ability and his experience in playing the mid-level authority figure , makes his performance in the siege convincing and enjoyable . 
annette bening gives one of the more assertive portrayals of a female character i've seen recently , and the chemistry she shares with washington is palpable . 
it's somewhat unfortunate that her character's fortitude is broken at a certain point , but it allows us to watch bening play a little more range . 
bruce willis is pretty much relegated to a tough-guy role , always standing straight , and with a permanent scowl fixed upon his face . 
however , the tension that exists between devereaux and hubbard is a major drive behind the film's development . 
notable is tony shalhoub who plays fbi agent frank haddad , a lebanese immigrant . 
the role calls for evidencing both a kind of filial pride for his heritage , and contempt for those of his own race who might interfere with his integration into the american society . 
difficult to say the least , shalhoub does it with a naturalness you can almost reach out and touch . 
perhaps best known for his role as antonio the cab driver in the nbc sitcom " wings , " shalhoub gained notoriety for his dramatic abilities in the wonderful film big night . 
whereas denzel washington seems to be edward zwick's favorite actor ( he directed washington in glory and courage under fire ) , james horner seems to be his favorite composer . 
i therefore found it odd that zwick chose the prolific score-writer graeme revell ( seven films this year already ) over horner for the siege until i realized that this film contained a lot of arabian-themed music , and horner's record has shown more of a propensity for scores either neutral in ethnicity or irish-sounding at most . 
revell does a good job at providing appropriate music to punctuate key scenes and allowing the score to enhance the movie as a whole . 
it's nowhere near as intrusive as in some of the other films we've been getting throughout the year . 
missteps in the siege can be found in a couple of the excesses it takes . 
for example , it's pretty clear throughout that the film is meant to be more of thriller than an action flick . 
unfortunately , there's a scene where the army just cuts loose against some arab immigrants in a blatant display of firepower and explosions , obviously meant for the sole purpose of being eye-catching . 
in the middle of the city ( and against no real opposition ) , zwick even has the army use a cobra attack helicopter to shoot rockets into a building no farther than 50 feet from friendly troops . 
verisimilitude really goes out the window at that point . 
the film also gets a little preachy toward the end , focusing on the ability of different races to get along . 
a noble gesture , the film just puts the message across a bit too obviously . 
these flaws are glaring , but they don't detract too much from an otherwise good film that makes you think about issues you may not have considered since history class . 
very few people would be unaware of beavis & butt-head ( both created and narrated by mike judge ) . 
they are the two animated mtv characters who have the most annoying laughter know to human kind . 
you may have seen them on their television program , as they snigger and make lude remarks about women , anything related to sex , and the music film clips that they watch . 
in beavis & butt-head do america the pair finally make their big screen debut , to the delight of some , and the deplore of others . 
beavis & butt-head ( yes , those are their real names ) , are two very ugly teenagers with extremely warped minds driven by raging hormones . 
they live their lives in front of the television . 
the worst possible event occurs to the pair when their television is stolen . 
this happens as they sleep , and when they awake it takes them a few minutes just to decipher that the television has gone . 
beavis even tries to use the remote , though there is no television there . 
the two spot a van outside and two sinister looking men carrying a television . 
even at this point they have no idea what has happened . 
they look around , seeing all the evidence , but are completely oblivious to the fact that these men have just stolen their television . 
before the movie i knew that they were stupid , but i didn't realise just how stupid . 
this is typical of their behaviour throughout the film . 
eventually they realise that their television has been stolen , so they leave their sofa to go search for a television . 
luck would have it that they stumble into a hotel room ( looking for a television ) where a man is awaiting two guys whose task it is to kill his wife . 
this man , thinking that beavis & butt-head are the assigned killers , tells them that they can have $10 , 000 if they " do his wife " . 
beavis & butt-head , being the ignorant fools that they are , think that he is offering them $10 , 000 dollars to have sex with his good looking wife . 
they are taken to the airport where they fly to las vegas to " do her " . 
to them , this is the best day of their lives . 
not only are they going to lose their virginity ( one of their lifelong aims ) , but most importantly , they will have enough money to buy a big screen tv . 
inevitably they become caught up in a huge crime , and unbeknown to them , are tracked across the country by the fbi . 
oddly enough , it is their complete stupidity that spares them from being caught , as a result the fbi is convinced they are criminal masterminds . 
they end up travelling right across america , visiting places such as the hoover dam and washington dc . 
the irony is that although they visit so many grand and spectacular locations , their one time out in the big world away from their television , they are completely oblivious to it . 
at old faithful they are far more fascinated with the infra-red operated urinals than with the geyser itself . 
beavis & butt-head essentially have the journey of their lives . 
they even get to meet the president . 
but all they care about is getting their television back , and losing their virginity . 
this is one of the many reasons that the film is so funny - it's unbelievable just how stupid they are , and how they can be so oblivious to everything around them . 
the humour is certainly crude , but then beavis & butt-head are just that ; crude , lude and rude . 
in the end you can't help but feel sorry for them , a pair of anti-social couch potatoes whose life is television . 
in this respect , and also with regard to authority ( such as the fbi ) mike judge is quite critical of amercian society . 
if you are easily offended , or find this pair particularly annoying , steer clear . 
otherwise , it should keep you laughing the whole way through . 
one note of warning : don't take friends who like to imitate beavis & butt-head . . . . . you'll 
never hear the end of it ! 
let me start off by saying that leading up to the release of the latest bond film , i really wasn't looking forward to it as much as i have with some of the previous films . 
i'm not sure if it was the fairly lackluster trailers or the ever-present dread that the next film will fall back into the miserable ways of the timothy dalton years . 
i'm happy to report that any doubts were erased after about the first 10 minutes of the film . 
by that point , it was evident that mr . bond was back with a vengeance . 
all doubts would have probably been erased sooner except for the fact that the first ten minutes of the film weren't exactly a pleasant experience . 
it seems that nobody told the geniuses working at the theater that the house lights are supposed to be turned off when the movie starts . 
it took a reminder from an audience member to clue them in . 
i guess they can be excused though , taking tickets and cleaning up popcorn between shows is extremely taxing on the brain . 
anyway , after somebody remembered what the light switch was for , i settled in for bond . 
i think the most noticeable aspect of this , the 19th film in the series , is that it really goes back to the almost tongue in cheek style of the roger moore films . 
there were probably more one-liners in this movie than in the last several combined . 
and bond's last one-liner in the film is about the best of the series . 
the world is not enough also contained perhaps the most action of any movie of the series . 
everything from wild boat chases to the usual assortment of cool bond gadgets trotted out just when there seems to be no way out for 007 . 
for the most part , the action sequences worked very well . 
although , there were a couple of times that i thought some things were a bit over the top , even for a bond film . 
i think some of the blame can be laid at the feet of director michael apted . 
while he did a good job for the most part , there were points in the movie , specifically during action sequences , that he seemed to loose site of the fact that he was making essentially an action film . 
most noticeably sequences on a snow covered mountain and one involving bond getting through a closing door looked like apted thought he was filming some sort of high brow art movie . 
he almost seemed like he didn't know what he was doing . 
but they were brief scenes and really shouldn't take away from the otherwise solid job that apted did in directing . 
if you have ever seen a bond film , you won't be shocked to learn that plot has never been their strong suit . 
the world is not enough is no exception . 
this time we have yet another over villain that bond has to stop for the good of the world . 
007 matches wits with the terrorist renard ( robert carlyle ) , a man who has a bullet lodged in his brain that makes him impervious to pain . 
why this point is included is beyond me . 
they took great pains to explain his condition , but it only came up later in the movie as a scene that can only be described as looking like an afterthought . 
anyway , renard , like the typical terrorist that he is , is bent on some harebrained scheme involving a mid-east oil pipeline . 
i guess world domination just isn't as attractive to terrorists as a money making venture anymore . 
bond is brought in to protect the pipeline's owner , elektra king ( sophie marceau ) , who is the daughter of one of renard's recent victims . 
along the way , bond has to enlist the help of a nuclear scientist , dr . christmas jones ( denise richards ) , and his old rival valentin zukovsky ( robert carlyle ) . 
like all bond films , you basically just have to suspend disbelief over the plot , since it is ridiculous beyond words . 
my biggest complaint would be that it was about the most disjointed of any of the bond films . 
there was at least one point that i had to stop and try to remember why bond was where he was and why he was doing what he was doing . 
the buddy that i saw the movie with was completely confused over an earlier kidnapping of marceau's character . 
it was alluded to earlier in the movie briefly -- although not included in the film . 
later , it became a big part of the story and left him with the distinct feeling that he had missed something . 
but because it is a bond film , the beautiful women and nifty gadgets seem to make you forget about script problems quite quickly . 
after all , it isn't shakespeare . 
how about the cast ? 
brosnan seems to get better with each of his appearances as 007 . 
i grew up with the roger moore version of bond , so i really enjoyed the lighter style that brosnan brings to the character . 
judi dench , as m , had a bigger role in this film than in her two previous appearances in the role . 
she brought the talent with her that one would expect from an oscar winner . 
robbie coltrane was easily one of the best parts in goldeneye , so it was nice to see his russian mobster character revived in this movie . 
coltrane gets more screen time , which simply leads to him stealing even more scenes . 
then there are the bond girls . 
sophie marceau might be one of the most beautiful actresses working today . 
there is just something about her breathtaking eyes that makes her a natural to play the innocent victim . 
those that saw her in braveheart know she is more than just a pretty face . 
marceau may be the most talented actress to ever play a bond love interest . 
then we have denise richards . 
there was no doubt in my mind that she was cast exclusively for her looks . 
and after you see the outfits she wears , you won't have any trouble guessing what part of her anatomy caught the producer's eyes . 
i was pleasantly surprised to find that she really did a good job playing a nuclear scientist . 
admittedly , there was one point that the audience snickered a bit at one of her technical lines of dialogue , but other than that she stacks up ( no pun intended ) to her bond girl predecessors nicely . 
i must say that the biggest disappointment was robert carlyle's character . 
while carlyle did a fine job with the material that he had , his character just never worked for me . 
the producers tried very hard to add more complexity to his character , but it just never quite got off the ground . 
i guess i was hoping for a bit more regarding the whole impervious to pain aspect of his character , but the writers decided to play up the emotional side of his character . 
this might have worked well in another movie , but i don't go to see bond movies for their deep characterizations . 
last , but not least , we have desmond llewelyn as q . this is the 17th appearance for llewelyn as bond's gadget guy , and he is as good as ever . 
although his screen time has grown far more limited in the past few films , he is still a treat to watch . 
rumors abound that this may be his last appearance in the role . 
he says future appearances are up to a higher power . 
the producers have introduced his protege and future replacement , a bumbling and somewhat pompous character played by comedy master john cleese . 
while we don't see much of him in this film , i think it is fair to say that desmond llewelyn's legacy , whenever it is passed on , will be in very capable hands . 
so how does it stack up ? 
despite some problems , the world is not enough is a very entertaining movie . 
and , all things considered , what problems it does have are small compared to some that have plagued earlier bond movies . 
this is easily the best of the brosnan films . 
it may even be the best of the entire series , certainly in the top 3 . 
one thing is for sure , even after 19 movies , there is still plenty of life left in the james bond series . 
here's looking forward to bond number 20 . 
seen september 5 , 1998 at 10 p . m . at the sony nickelodeon theaters ( boston , ma ) , theater #2 , with matt perreault for free using my sony/loews critic's pass . 
[theater rating : * * 1/2 : okay seats , sound , and picture] 
modern society is now inundated with more sex and sexuality than it ever has been before , from teenage sitcoms to nc-17-rated films about fetishes . 
the biggest debate of the subject is whether or not it affects reality or just reflects it . 
 " your friends and neighbors " takes a different approach as it's a film that revolves almost entirely around sex and how can be used for both pain and pleasure even within a small circle of friends . 
one of the most important aspects of the film that most be noted and analyzed before the film can really be dissected as a whole is writer/director neil labute's basic setup and some of the unique methods he employs to tell the story . 
firstly , and most importantly is the fact the script tells a rather complex , detailed story of lust , betrayal , arrogance , hypocrisy , greed , and just plain stupidity between six different characters ( three men , three women ) , without hardly any supporting characters , ( a few have a line or two ) , mostly extras . 
everything they do will somehow affect another character and ultimately come full-circle back to themselves , whether it be positive or negative . 
but to just state this is arbitrary , and explaining and criticizing the process is difficult . 
labute's ability to tell his story through a few characters is a remarkable feat , but what's specifically impressive is the fact the characters' names are never revealed until the end credits roll . 
for the sake of this review , i will describe the characters and refer to them as their main characteristic . 
another interesting accomplishment is the fact every scene takes place inside with limited focus . 
we're always able to tell where the characters are ( someone's home , the gym , a restaurant , hotel room , etc . ) , but what the city they live in , what year it is , what the society is like , etc . is relatively unknown . 
the film is a complete character study with the tight , intense drama of the theater . 
no one plot dominates the story , which makes the first act a bit tedious for its lack of background . 
we're simply dropped in on the characters' lives and are expected to figure out the rest . 
the characters are a group of middle-class white people who are all successful at what they do , but they're only concern right now seems to be their sex lives . 
first there's barry ( eckhart ) and mary ( brenneman ) , a married couple who are going through a dry spell not unlike many other couples in other situations who don't know what they're problem is . 
barry is kind of a dorky businessman who loves his wife , and the sex they have , but doesn't have a lot of ambition - he just follows everyone else . 
mary is a writer of some sort , but lacks aggression and emotion like her husband and is the meekness character , but ironically , doesn't hesitate to commit adultery just to feel something . 
labute's script does a good job in characterizing mary and barry as individuals , but is very light on chemistry and connection between the two . 
obviously , this is the theme , which is enhanced by the actors' good performances , but at the same time seems just a bit hollow . 
another couple is jerry ( stiller ) and terri ( keener ) who live together and seem to have been involved with each other for a long time , yet they constantly argue over anything and everything . 
their sex life is also fraught with problems and for some reason they continue to do it throughout their infidelitous relationship . 
if only one aspect of the film could use improvement , it would be this area . 
it's natural for a married couple to become bored with each other , but why would two people who can barely stand each other continue to have sex and live together ? 
what did they ever see in the other person to begin with ? 
labute never really answers , but since the film is more concerned with the payoff than the process , it still makes for good drama , tension , and manip ulation so intricate and deceitful it's fascinating . 
two other characters act as catalysts , cary ( jason patric ) and cheri ( natassja kinski ) . 
cary is an arrogant , hostile sex-maniac who defines the word " bastard . " 
somehow he is able to bend women to his will , either through charm or just attitude , into getting his way . 
he's the kind of guy everyone should stay away from as we realize he's secretly perverted , but somehow barry finds comfort in his company , although jerry is always nervous around him . 
patric gives an outstanding performance , so much so that we want to know more about him despite how intimidating and unlikable he is . 
cheri is a character labute uses as a catalyst to see how the other characters react to her . 
she works in an art museum and at some point throughout the film , each character will engage her in almost the exact same conversation and her reaction is always different , from becoming involved in a relationship with one , to brushing it off as small talk with another , to being outright appalled by yet another . 
she's a sweet woman , perhaps the most normal of any of the characters , and although her symbolism is obvious , her role as the outsider is the most relatable . 
i will not reveal who cheats on who and how each character is specifically affected by the others' action , as that's the hook of the film . 
the first two acts begin to set up the characters and each's scenarios , but it's often difficult to tell what they will do about it and with whom . 
the result is sometimes surprising , other times predictable , but the actual course of actions is always fascinating . 
for a while everyone has their fun , but ultimately each character's guilt , attitude , or ignorance will disserve them . 
one of the most important things to note is how realistic the story is supposed to be . 
since the characters only interact with each other there isn't much pop culture references , as almost everything has a deeper philosophy behind it . 
are we to assume that these people are , as the title states , our friends and neighbors ? 
i don't know of anyone going through the same situations as these people . 
often times the film is not unlike a network melodrama , other times situations are like those not seen outside a porno movie . 
but what this film does have that the others don't is repercussions in the end . 
although the film creates its own reality , it goes to show that even the immoral aren't immortal . 
in what way " your friends and neighbors " is supposed to work is open to interpretation . 
it definitely has a lot to say about the price that comes with infidelity , but it could have been even better had it expanded on that theme more specifically . 
still , it's an accomplishment in film-making because it has put a timeless theme into a modern perspective . 
the characters in " palmetto " collectively sweat enough to fill lake erie , and it's just the right way to capture the film's ripe atmosphere of sensuality , tension and even farce . 
this humid florida-set thriller nurtures a modestly absurd edginess that often winks at itself , which is very much a good thing since the actors and director are in on the joke . 
as far as set-up is concerned , the movie is nothing we haven't seen before , but be patient -- " palmetto " spins some pretty wicked story twists that we really don't see coming . 
it's not a classic by any means , but it sure is quite an engaging surprise . 
harry barber ( woody harrelson ) is fresh out of prison , where he's served a couple of years for a crime he didn't commit . 
even though he harbors animosity towards the obtuse local officials , harry's first order of business is to return to his home town of palmetto to be with his sculptor girlfriend nina ( gina gershon ) . 
while searching for work , he catches the eye of rhea malroux ( elisabeth shue ) , the mysterious sexbomb wife of a palmetto millionaire . 
rhea proposes a scheme that'll get harry $50 , 000 easy -- to play a small part in the staged kidnaping of her jailbait stepdaughter odette ( chloe sevigny ) . 
 " you do like risks , don't you , mr . barber ? " 
rhea alluringly coos . 
boys , form a line behind me . 
part of " palmetto " 's success can be attributed to the performance of elisabeth shue , who demonstrates here that her oscar-nominated turn in " leaving las vegas " might merely be foreshadowing great things to come . 
shue's a seductive , campy delight , and pulls off a barbara stanwyck-gloria swanson combo with admirable relish . 
the other actors form a solid ensemble around her , including sevigny ( " kids " ) , tantalizingly slutty as a teen tease , as well as the ever-likeable gershon , cast a far cry from her extreme roles in " bound " and " showgirls . " 
harrelson is still doing fine follow-up work to " the people vs . larry flynt . " 
 " palmetto " does have its share of grievances . 
harrelson's narration is needless , i suppose , and gershon's nina cries to be meatier than she ultimately is . 
one of the plot's unexpected angles -- that harry is asked by the police to become the press liaison for the very crime in which he's involved -- could have been played a little better . 
there are moments when you question the tone , but it's never so unstable that it deserves the reproach it's been receiving from most other critics . 
if " palmetto " didn't want to be laughed at , would it really have tacked on a climax that plays like a live-action " who framed roger rabbit " ? 
although a few elements can be questioned , the movie works well on its own terms . 
thanks to a juicy cast -- especially shue -- and the nifty material approach from director volker schlondorff ( you remember him from last summer's suddenly re-popular " the tin drum , " right ? ) , 
everything runs smoothly . 
and for fans of revelation-heavy endings , this film's got a few shocks in store that i won't even dream of revealing . 
 " palmetto " is a generous amount of fun to watch , and that's all you need to know . 
 " you've got mail " is the very definition of a " cute " movie . 
it's got cute stars , a cute story-line , and even cute pets . 
despite this over-whelming cuteness ( or maybe because of it ) , i loved " you've got mail " . 
i know , i know . 
i'm supposed to be a film critic . 
i'm not supposed to love transparent and formula pictures like this . 
but darn it , somewhere along the way , " you've got mail " reeled me in , hook , line , and sinker . 
the movie stars tom hanks and meg ryan as two somewhat unhappy new yorkers who meet in an aol online chat room and quickly become close friends , without ever knowing each others identity . 
as the movie progresses , though , they begin to discover that they have a lot in common with each other . 
meanwhile , in " real-life " , they are bitter competitors . 
she owns a quaint little children's bookstore , he owns one of those gigantic super-bookstores that offer impersonal service and discount prices . 
while his store threatens to run her store out of business , their online relationship grows stronger . 
 " you've got mail " is as artificial as movies come . 
everything is nice and happy and by the end , all the characters have gotten exactly what they wanted out of life . 
there are no real conflicts , no major disappointments , no unresolved issues . 
nevertheless , i quite enjoyed it . 
in fact , i can't remember the last time i had such a good time at the movies . 
i think sometimes you have to be able to watch a movie and just get drawn into it . 
the fact that stars hank and ryan are at the top of their game does not hurt either . 
in particular , hanks is at his best here , turning his " charm-meter " up to 11 . 
everytime he was on screen , he had my full attention . 
and despite the fact that he was driving little bookstores out of business , i was rooting for him . 
it was good to see hanks back doing what he does best : playing the affable everyman . 
 " you've got mail " certainly won't be winning any awards , but as an exercise in pure entertainment , it's as good as it gets . 
with the sudden liberal emergence of personal privacy abounding in the news lately , what with that whole clinton thing going on ( you know , 100 million bucks to discover the president got boinked by an intern - oh , please , government , waste my taxes just a bit more , would you ? ) , 
it's about time tony scott helmed the newest action pic disguised as an important if not slightly ignorant social statement . 
with this and " crimson tide , " he's created two successfully chilly films that are interesting , exciting , even pretty smart , but never totally riveting as cinema , and the problem i think with each of these films is that each film is too obsessed with its message to ever be really satisfying , and too obsessed with looking all cutting edge to ever be totally smart . 
that film dealt with a civil war inside a nuclear submarine over whether or not to follow rules or question them , and was appropriately scary and all , but never totally thrilling or overly brilliant . 
 " enemy of the state " is the same way : it's engrossing for its entire running time , and it's scary the way that it shows a man's decent into kafkaism , but it's too technical . 
it's too cold and not as fascinating or exciting as it could be . 
it casts will smith , one of the better big budget leading men in movies these days because he's charming and witty and never uninteresting , and hopes that his charisma can make up for his character not being well developed enough to really be a person . 
i hate to do this , but last year's film " the game " got it damn perfect : it casts michael douglas as a deeply flawed human being , a man who is cold and has cut off everyone from his life , and then pulls everything he thought he had as a security blanket away from him and watched what happened . 
the result was not only a film that was exciting and chilling , but also the best mindfuck of the entire year . 
not that i want every kafkaesque film to be " the game " ( this year's " the spanish prisoner " succeeds with less thrills and chills ) , but it should be an example of what works and what doesn't . 
will smith's character is , frankly , too perfect , at least too movie perfect . 
he had an affair with another woman ( lisa bonet , ha ha ) , but his relationship with his wife ( regina king ) is basically fine regardless . 
he has a kid , and he's raking in money as a lawyer , albeit a very good and reasonably moral one . 
so he generally doesn't have any real problems as a human being , and is therefore boring . . . except that he is played by will smith , who embodies him with about as much will smith charm as he can without entering " id4 " / " men in black " territory . 
he's a good dramatic actor ( just see the first half hour of " six degrees of separation " for proof of this , not that he isn't great the whole time ) , and here , he makes his character likable and sympathetic without any real strain on his character , which makes the film lack any real deep interesting qualities . 
smith becomes involved in a mass conspiracy involving the assasination of a senator opposed to a government law that would create world surveillance , extinguishing privacy as we know it from the world , under the pretense that it would make crime easier to control , when he is passed a disk of the event caught on tape by an outside party ( a nature observer played by , uh , jason lee ) . 
the government wants the disk , and is prepared to destroy his life to get it . 
as smith's plight is dramatized , we are introduced to the masterminds who surveillance him , sitting in vans disguised as other businesses , staring at computers and pulling out tricks faster than a speeding bullet . 
these guys ( played by jack black , jamie kennedy , and seth green ) are the most interesting part of this film because they're , well , fascinating : they're doing their jobs , which are evil , but the film doesn't view them as such , and they almost become our friends . 
we like these guys for the sole reason that the film doesn't automatically judge them as the villains . 
they're also scary because we get the idea that they're not fully aware of the impact their jobs have on the world . 
it's as if they're obsessed with their jobs , not because they're evil , but because , hey , it's a fun job , and no one else can do it like them . 
unfortunately , this also backfires a bit on the film : instead of being the flashlight in the darkened room that " the game " was , you see everything , and are thus not as freaked out because you know what is going on . 
sure , you're chilled , but you're not exacty freaked out by what's going on . 
but what do you expect from tony scott , the man who never met a five-second piece of film he ever liked . 
he's a not-bad director because , hell , he is always interesting to watch ( if not occasionally moronic - exhibit a : " days of thunder " ) , but the reason he's not great is because he's too technical and calculated . 
his shots are perfectly executed , and leave nothing to the imagination , and they're always making sure you're paying attention . 
this is incredibly annoying , and it reduces " enemy of the state " to a mechanical mishmash of flashy images that never expand the mind at any great depths , but still manage to entertain without any real problems . 
despite never actually becoming great , it's never actually boring and it's always intriguing . 
watching the government set-up smith is endlessly fascinating , and since we care about smith's likeable protagonist , we are set-up for a good two hours worth of tom clancy-esque entertainment . 
add the best big cast this side of the annual woody allen film ( everyone from gabriel byrne to dan butler pop up for cameos ) , and you've got a good old fashioned escapist drama which does all the thinking for you so that you never have to actually question the debate over personal privacy and so you can follow will smith's plight without a minute's worth of boredom . 
mary norton's children's book series , the borrowers , has been made into several below-average television movies . 
so , i wasn't too enthused as i entered the theater for the big-screen debut of the minute clan . 
but i was in for a shock , the borrowers is actually a thoroughly delightful movie with plenty of good laughs and even some decent special effects . 
the lender family is being thrown out of their longtime home . 
their aunt , who owned the property , never left a will . 
now , an unscrupulous lawyer , ocious potter ( john goodman ) plans to demolish the house and replace it with an ultra-modern housing development . 
but the lenders are not alone in their house . 
living under the floorboards is a family of borrowers , 4 inch tall people who make their living as scavengers from the human " beans " above . 
the clock family of borrowers is as distressed as the lenders , especially once they discover the evil potter actually has a copy of the will which leaves the home to the lenders . 
so it is up to the clocks ( pod ( jim broadbent ) and homily ( celia imrie ) , along with their kids , arrietty ( flora newbigin ) and peagreen ( tom felton ) ) to recover the will and save the household . 
but when potter learns of the tiny people , he enlists the skills of exterminator jeff ( mark williams ) to kill off the clan . 
there's plenty of attention to detail in the borrowers , especially in the furnishings of the clock family house , made out of lost board game parts and credit cards . 
the background details are nearly as rich as the entertaining story . 
the various predicaments of the clock family are clever and thrilling . 
based on an original story , the screenwriters did a good job at imagining all the potential and unusual perils that could exist for a 4-inch tall person . 
as the villain , john goodman's performance veers on the edge of being over-the-top . 
but his performance suits the role well , and he does very well in the film's many slapstick moments . 
with a nearly seamless mix of oversized sets , bluescreen shots and cgi , the special effects in the borrowers are very well done . 
there are a few times when you can spot the effects at work , but none of them are so jarring that you lose the suspension of disbelief . 
hopefully the borrowers will surpass the curse of being labeled a children-only movie , for it is surprisingly entertaining and fun to watch . 
touchstone pictures and spyglass entertainment presents a birnbaum / barber production in association with a jackie chan films limited production jackie chan owen wilson " shanghai noon " lucy liu music by randy edelman co producers ned dowd jules daly executive producer jackie chan willie chan and solon so produced by roger birnbaum gary barber and jonathan glickman written by alfred gough & miles millar directed by tom dey 
rated pg-13 for mild language , adult situations , drug use , martial art action and violence . 
107 minutes . 
super 35mm / panavision ( 2 . 35 : 1 ) 
what can you say about jackie chan that hasn't already been said . 
since the release of 'rumble in the bronx " back in 1996 ( the u . s . release ) , jackie has become a fairly recognizable commodity on america's video shelves . 
having made over 80 films , jackie has finally succeeded in bringing his style of action-comedy to the west . 
his latest release , " shanghai noon " , is a joyful tribute / spoof of the classic western . 
and by adding jackie chan into the genre , the tag line for the film ( " the western gets a kick in the pants " ) rings true . 
jackie stars as chon wang , a lesser imperial guard in the forbidden city of china . 
the royal princess pei pei ( lucy liu ) is set to be married to the obnoxious son of a nobleman from another prefecture . 
unwilling to follow her father's wishes , princess pei pei with the assistance of her english tutor , decides to escape to america . 
but this is all a ploy devised by exiled guard lo fong , which will lead to the princess' kidnapping and ransom . 
unable to take any legal action , the ransom demands are met and three of the forbidden city's bravest guards ( played by cui ya hi , rong guang yu , and eric chen ) are ordered to transport the ransom payment to lo fong in carson city , nevada . 
chon wang pleads with the imperial court and is given permission to join the team , as he is looked upon as a buffoon . 
on a train in the u . s . jackie meets up with bandit roy o'bannon ( owen wilson ) . 
he is much less of a bandit than he is a glory hog , looking simple for the notoriety and fame that being a bandit will bring him . 
with his gang in tow , roy attempts to rob the train , when one of his gang murders the chinese interpreter of the royal court , who also happens to be chon wang's uncle . 
chon wang gives chase , foiling the attempted robbery , but also leaving himself stranded in the desert . 
as the disgraced guard wanders through the desert , he again comes upon roy , who has been left for dead by his former gang . 
buried up to his neck in the desert , roy pleads with chon to dig him out . 
chon demands to know where carson city is . 
roy directs him , and chon leaves . 
but not before sticking two chopsticks into roy's mouth and telling him to dig himself . 
chon soon finds himself confronted by angry crow warriors , a friendly sioux tribe , gunslingers , a horse that thinks and behaves like a dog and an indian bride ( brandon merrill ) , before once again running into roy . 
 " shanghai noon " is just good fun . 
the chemistry between the cast is remarkable . 
the performances are all acceptable within the whimsical levels of the film . 
jackie's performance is as good as anything he's done before . 
he's not called on to do much acting here , as the character is not written with any depth . 
but jackie's natural charisma shines through , and his comic timing is so perfect , both physically and ( surprise ) verbally that once again he commands the screen whenever he is on . 
owen wilson , last seen in the embarrassing remake of " the haunting " , gives a good natured performance as roy o'bannon . 
his innocence is refreshing and fun . 
a bad guy that's not really bad . 
his scenes with jackie are some of the best bits of comic dueling since martin and lewis . 
lucy liu as princess pei pei is given little to do in the script , but for a change does not play a nymphet or some other deviant . 
the character is a noble woman of status and wealth , but finds a greater cause as a result of her own imprisonment . 
the rest of the performances are all broadly drawn comic performances . 
nothing here is realistic , mind you . 
 " shanghai noon " is first and foremost a light , jovial film . 
and the performances match that style with ease . 
the cinematography by dan mindel is gorgeous . 
using calgary , alberta as the prime location . 
mr . mindel is able to create a lush , romantic western feel to the film . 
nothing here really looks like nevada , but the locations are so beautifully shot and staged , the film can be looked upon as a loving tribute to earlier films of the genre . 
and as such , the script by alfred gough and miles millar plays fast and loose with history , but with reverence to past films . 
homage to such films as " high noon " ( obviously ) , " red river " and most notably " butch cassidy & the sundance kid " all bring a sense of nostalgia to the film . 
it is a comforting experience . 
at a time when the western is considered either old hat or irrelevant , here is a film that embraces those old attitudes and ( dare i say ) clich ? s and manages to make them palatable and refreshing . 
here is a film that is not contemptuous of the genre . 
this is the purest " horse opera " since the days of george o'brian or john wayne . 
director tom dey has crafted a loving tribute to hollywood's past . 
in this , his first film mr . dey shows both a love of character and of craftsmanship that is refreshing to see . 
nothing here really stands out , or takes one's attention away from the story or action . 
and that is as it should be , when jackie chan is your star . 
and what of the action and stunts . 
well , while not up to a level of " drunken master 2 " or any of jackie's hong kong films , " shanghai noon " is miles ahead of anything jackie has done in an american film before . 
his timing , choreography , and creativity are still as sharp as ever . 
jackie even gets to recreate a few scenes from his earlier films ( obvious to those of us that have seen those films , but refreshingly fun for those unfamiliar ) . 
finally jackie can honestly say , that he has made an u . s . , his way and incorporating his style . 
to sum up , " shanghai noon " is a fun summer confection . 
not too heavy and not too light . 
a fun and entertaining film that the whole family can enjoy ( parents be advised there are scenes of smoking , drunkenness and peyote use ) . 
an enjoyable and charming film that can and will be enjoyed again and again . 
the reunion film is not an original idea in any way , shape , or form . 
it's been done throughout film history over and over again , and has become one of the many sub-genres , like the prep school sub-genre , the angst-filled teen sub-genre , and the slasher sub-genre . 
what makes " peter's friends " so remarkable is not how it doesn't follow the rules of this sub-genre , but how it follows it so well , and creates characters that i wouldn't mind hanging with . 
what are the rules of the reunion sub-genre ? 
well . . . . 
1 . you need a group of friends , most of them married or at least dating , and sometimes even married or dating eachother . 
2 . you need to have them brought back together over some sort of a crisis . 
3 . they are not to have spoken together much since they split apart . 
4 . the reunion has to come in intervals divisible by 10 . 
5 . they all have to be slightly to highly neurotic . 
6 . the reunion has to bring them together , seperate them with little crises , then bring them back together because , after all , they're friends . 
7 . there has to be some sex or at least some making out either between the friends or with other people that are there or were invited . 
8 . eightly , they're all unhappy or marginally so . 
9 . there's some sort of sexual tension amongst some of them that's built up over the years . 
10 . the friends are all wildly successful in the world of entertainment and the arts , sometimes internationally so . 
11 . the film is filled with nostalgic radio hits from the time when they were friends , sometimes causing them to get together in dance/song . 
since it follows these rules so closely , it will probably be ( and has been ) coined off as just a " british 'big chill . ' " 
and in some ways it is . 
both follow the rules , as i said , and both feature lots of bitching , big confessionals , and broken relationships . 
but while " the big chill " was , at least to me , a tad too whiny and unsatisfying , " peter's friends " hits its mark , making this film funny , dramatic , and poignant . 
the friends of peter's were all in the same theatre group back in '82 , performig wildly outrageous british acts for people far too stuck up to enjoy them ( the opening scene has them all dancing in tux tops and tutus ) . 
after peter's ( stephen fry ) wealthy father ( richard briers , hardly on screen enough to register , but oh well ) dies , leaving a giant mansion to him , he has to decide whether or not to keep it . 
not sure what to do with it immeadiately , he decides to throw a giant reunion party , inviting back all his old chums . 
of course , all or most of his chums follow the tenth rule . 
andrew ( kenneth branagh , also directing here ) is an actor who's unhappily married to a tv star , carol ( co-writer rita rudner ) . 
maggie ( emma thompson ) is a successfuly publisher of self-help books , but looks like she needs them more than her customers , as she is lonely and unhappy . 
roger and mary ( hugh laurie and imelda staunton , who were also married in " sense and sensibility " ) are married , and are the most successful creators of jingles in the uk , but have suffered a tragedy as one of their newly born twins has recently died . 
and sarah ( alphonsia emmanuel ) is as promiscuous as ever , having a new boyfriend as of two weeks named brian ( tony slattery ) who's married and wants a divorce because of her , giving her doubts . 
as for peter , things seem okay . . . 
the film features lots of inner-friend jokes , and even some old theatre anecdotes ( which i at least find a lot of fun in , as i've done lots of theatre myself ) . 
and there are big confessions , brawls between the friends , and by the end , almost everyone is unhappy , even though some have resolved their problems long before the end ( which i kinda dug ) . 
the final twist would seem forced an anti-climactic , but for some reason , i felt the same way the rest of the friends did . 
maybe it's because the people in this film are so likable that i just wanted to join their clique . 
that's really what makes " peter's friends " so lovable : the way you just want to hang with a group of friends who can be so dysfuntional sometimes , but when someone's in crisis , can come together wonderfully for one another . 
it's when you have a giant crisis like this and people want to selflessly help you out instead of subtely pushing you away that makes you realize you have true friends , and these people are true friends . 
not to mention kenneth branagh is able to make the film seem nostalgic for the 80s ( a decade i grew up in , unfortunately ) without taking us outside of the 90s . 
there are some 80s classics and anti-classics like tears for fears " everybody wants to rule the world , " but unfortunately no stupid/fun 80s songs ( i think if i ever did an 80s reunion film , i'd put some crap go gos song on , or at least some good old " come on eileen " ) , but this is the british 80s we're talking about . 
oh well . 
but anyway , the direction is pretty good , although nothing amazing . 
branagh's forte is really making shakespeare fresh and magical , but at least he's very good with making a less ambiguous film like this . 
the writing is good from rita rudner and martin bregman , with lots of good one-liners , and even some really bad but good puns ( to mock the fact that andrew lives in l . a . , peter , while cutting some logs , asks him is he has wood in l . a . , and andrew says , " no , but we have hollywood " - punishment like that ) . 
the actors , as in most speaking movies , are better than their material , though , with some stand-out performances to the six friends , as well as the outsiders like slattery , rudner , and phyllida law as the old housekeeper of the peter's mansion . 
a little note should be made about hugh laurie's performance , as he looks like he took some massive doses of prozac before doing this - i mean , i've never seen him actually act this dramatically . 
 " peter's friends " is a really enjoyable film which makes people like me pine for some sort of future reunion , although i don't know what kind i'll have ( like most people , i don't look forward to my high school reunion ) . 
because of the way these friends are still able to maintain the same amount of care they have for one another and after such a long period of seperation , i just look forward to the day when i can have friends like that . 
once upon a time a solitary ogre named shrek ( mike myers ) was really annoyed to discover that his swamp had been invaded by three blind mice , seven dwarves and all the other fairy tale characters in the land , banished from their home by lord farquaad ( john lithgow ) . 
unwittingly befriended by a non-stop talking donkey ( eddie murphy ) , shrek travels to dulloc to speak with farquaad , where he stumbles into a joust and comes up the winner . 
his prize ? 
to save princess fiona ( cameron diaz ) from a tower surrounded by molten flame and protected by a dragon so she can become farquaad's bride . 
the ogre agrees to the task in return for getting his solitary lifestyle back in " shrek . " 
it took four writers ( ted elliott and terry rossio ( " the road to el dorado " ) , roger s . h . 
schulman ( " balto " ) and joe stillman ( " beavis and butthead do america " ) ) to adapt william steig's children's book . 
the bad news ? 
they've genericized an already simple plotline while heavily under the influence of william goldman's " the princess bride . " 
the good news ? 
there's so much wacky humor culled from both fairy tales and popular culture that this movie should keep you in stitches . 
we get our first inkling that we're in for a real treat as one of farquaad's men , intent on rounding up magical creatures offers 'five schillings for the possessed boy ! ' after observing dreamworks' rendition of disney's animated pinocchio . 
meanwhile within the castle walls , a gingerbread man being tortured 
by farquaad spits icing and yells 'eat me ! ' 
before breaking down and solemnly asking 'do you know the muffin man ? ' 
shrek , a green giant with bobbly antennae-like ears , is a grumpy recluse who really yearns to fit in ( although who could put up with his habit of making candles from his own ear wax ? ) . 
donkey is a hyperactive , endearingly stunted creature who can talk and , therefore , believes will make a great misfit pairing with the uncooperative shrek . 
donkey proves his worth sweet talking the princess-guarding dragon . 
the princess proves to be more than a shade offbeat after learning she's not getting the fairy tale issue rescue she's been expecting . 
when fiona's true colors are exposed ( including opportunies for some tomboyish gross out humor ) , a spark develops between her and shrek . 
the script's details are gleefully impish , constantly poking fun at disney from the theme park world of farquaad's dulloc with its turnstyle entrance and 'it's a small world' parody of an information booth to the blue bird which meets a most un-disneyish fate after duetting with fiona 'snow white' style . 
popular culture is represented with film references to " babe " and " charlies' angels " via " the matrix . " 
myers chooses his 'so i married an axe murderer' scottish brogue for shrek in order to give his voice some heft . 
while this may prove distracting for anyone familiar with that film , overall it works more than not . 
eddie murphy steals the show as the fast-talking , motown-singing donkey , proving once again his talent as a vocal performer ( is it another wink at disney that donkey is paired with a dragon , a creature murphy portrayed in disney's 'mulan ? ' ) . 
lithgow's a good choice for the supercilious , height-challenged villain lord farquaad . 
diaz is energetic but ultimately nondescript voicing princess fiona . 
 ( a better choice would have been minnie driver , who's proven herself a terrific vocal talent in such diverse animations as disney's " tarzan , " " princess mononoke " and the " south park " movie . ) 
the computer animation looks terrific ( particularly donkey ) , although it won't elicit the types of oohs and aahs of pixar's work ( " toy story , " " a bug's life , " " toy story 2 " ) . 
in keeping with its hip style , pop music is used , which like myer's voice may be initially jarring , but ultimately satisfies ( while surveying bridal candidates via a 'dating game' parody broadcast by snow white's evil queen's mirror , farquaad is told 'fiona likes pina coladas' - cue jimmy buffet ! ) . 
 " shrek " has good lessons for kids and humor targetted at every age group in the family . 
while it may be derivative of the 1987's " the princess bride , " " shrek " addresses a new generation with similar sensibilities and doesn't suffer in the comparison . 
some movies have such an impact that they linger in your mind long after the credits have rolled , making you think carefully and recollect on what you have just seen . 
i finished mike figgis' " leaving las vegas " hours ago , and it is still as haunting as when i hit rewind on the vcr . 
alot of people refer to this film as " that flick where nick cage plays that alcoholic dude " . 
 " leaving las vegas " is not so much a movie about alcoholism as it is a story about two people who except each other for what they are : a drunk and a whore . 
ben ( nicolas cage in possibly the best male performance of the past twenty years ) is the drunk . 
his family and friends have long since abandon him , and all he has left is his liquor . 
in a scene early in the film , we see ben staggering into a resteraunt , looking for a " friend " of his to mooch some money off of . 
he finds the guy ( richard lewis ) having dinner with a buddy and two chicks , trying to crack witty jokes that just come out stupid . 
when ben approaches the table , you can clearly sense that everyone immediatly feels uncomfortable . 
after lewis gives ben the money , he coldly says " i think it would be best if you didn't contact me again . " 
now even though through the course of the film , some much more depressing things happen , this is when i felt the most for ben . 
there was such a look of sorrow and dispare on his face , ( not to sound hokey or anything ) it almost brought a tear to my eye . 
it turns out that ben was once a semi-successful hollywood player , and apparently a pretty popular guy . 
now he spends his time getting robbed by hookers and trying desperatly to pick up women , not so much for the sex , but for the company ; for someone to talk to or spend time with . 
once he is fired from his job , ben decides to burn all his belongings , collect all his cash and relocate to las vegas to slowly drink himself to death . 
one night he runs into a prostitute ( a brilliant performance by elizabeth shue - how far she has come since " adventures in babysitting " ) named sera . 
she is involved in an abusive relationship with her pimp , a scumbag who gets-off by cutting her . 
they are both very lonely , self-destructive people . 
they immediatly hit it off , both of them realizing that they need one another . 
and it isn't even a sexual relationship . 
they don't even have sex until , like , the last ten minutes of the film . 
 " leaving las vegas " is not a film about plot . 
with the exception of what i have already revealed ( which all happens in the first thirty minutes or so , by the way ) , there isn't too much of a story to it . 
it is more a film about people and how they react to one another . 
from what i can see , this is basically a perfect film . 
the direction is great ( with mike figgis doing a brilliant mix between the glamor of las vegas and the moody , smokey atmosphere of a film noir ) and it contains two of the best performances to come out of the 90s , or any other decade for that matter . 
but don't go rushing out to see this movie without knowing what you're getting yourself into . 
first off , if you are easily offended by frank sexual dialouge , stay away from " leaving las vegas " . 
it is filled with lengthy discussions of orgasms , rape and various forms of perverted activities involving burbon ( that's right ) . 
secondly , if you are not in the mood to see a very depressing film , don't see it . 
however , if you are cool with those two things , you are in for one of the most memorable experiences you will ever have . 
`run lola run' , a german import that gained a stellar reputation at the sundance film festival , is a dazzling and kinetic film that deals with the subjects of fate and chance . 
for a berserk and retroactive 81 minutes of non-stop movement , we follow a fiery-haired heroine named lola ( franka potente ) as she sprints to save her boyfriend from the clutches of drug dealers . 
lola has roughly twenty minutes to somehow retrieve 100 , 000 marks in time to save manni ( moritz bleibtreu ) from being killed by the dealer . 
but , in something of a pseudo- `groundhog day' approach , director tom tykwer gives lola three separate chances to best navigate her way toward the goal . 
in these trio of episodes , we gradually learn the unique effects of fate , for even if tiny changes are made in lola's journey , the future can be seriously altered . 
`run lola run' is an experience like `fight club' or `the matrix' , in that each film takes you through a super-charged wormhole of bending reality in surreal and exciting ways . 
in addition , all three movies have a visual style that separates them from the rest of the pack . 
`lola' is no exception , with stylish quick-flash camera work and cinematography that serves as scintillating eye candy from the get-go . 
tykwer's world is a landscape of mood and color , with brilliant shades of red and pink ( including lola's fiery hair ) used as effective symbolism throughout . 
with it's visual style and mind-blowing pace , `run lola run' is one of the more invigorating movies of the year . 
even more so when considering the fact it's all stuffed rather nonchalantly into an 81-minute time period . 
as a heroine , potente does little more than run wildly through the streets ( as the title suggests ) , but she has a certain flair and charisma . 
her exemplary running form made me wonder if she is actually a track star . 
meanwhile , bleibtreu does an equally fantastic job of bringing the dopey but passionate manni to life . 
both actors perform beyond the call of duty . 
the dazzling fun comes from predicting what each episode holds in store for lola , and the outcome is ultimately rewarding - several twists and turns are unique and unexpected . 
the other characters lola runs into ( both purposely and inadvertently ) include her banker father ( herbert kraup ) and a friendly security guard ( armin rohde ) , but aside from the two leads , no one has more than a few minutes of screen time . 
additional stars that couldn't possibly be ignored are cinematographer frank griebe and editor mathilde bonnefroy , who are both responsible for the film's eye-catching visual elegance . 
`run lola run' is subtitled , so be prepared to meet the challenge of reading the lightning-fast dialogue - occasional sections of it are especially fast . 
this is only one of the minor chores involved in watching . 
the other is the sense that we never get to really recognize who the real people are in this hyperactive situation . 
most are just chess pieces in tykwer's elaborate game of visual presentation , and he never really makes a significant move with any . 
but , the average viewer is likely to be so absorbed in the action that few will realize the lack of potency in a few elements of the screenplay . 
a few petty gripes aside , this film is a wild , exhilarating ride that turns maniacally on its wheel of originality . 
most people believe foreign films are mainly boring , talky character studies . 
perhaps `run lola run' will recharge their batteries . 
not only does this film offer insight into some intriguing questions of fate and destiny , it also delivers a white-knuckle visual rollercoaster ride of overwhelming audacity . 
like how the experience must have been for the persistent title character , `run lola run' is exhausting . 
in " the sweet hereafter , " writer/director atom egoyan takes us beyond the tragedy of death into the tragedy of living . 
he shows us how it isn't dying that hurts , but rather the pain of living in the hereafter of death , and dealing with the loss and grief that it brings . 
on a cold winter day in a small , isolated town in british columbia , a school bus full of children slides off the highway and onto a frozen lake , where it cracks through the ice and sinks . 
fourteen children die , and numerous others are hurt . 
for the residents of this small town , all of whose children were on that bus , it is an earth-shattering event that resolutely alters their lives . 
they have always relied on each other in the past to deal with heartache and pain , but it seems that this tragedy is more than they can handle . 
alberta and risa walker , who own a local motel and lost their child in the accident , hire an attorney named mitchell stephens ( ian holm ) to bring a lawsuit against someone , anyone for responsibility . 
the bus driver , dolores driscoll ( gabrielle rose ) , is a kindly woman who loved the children and , although she lives with a burden of guilt , is not held responsible for the accident . 
the bus seems to have simply slipped on some ice , and there was nothing should could do to prevent it . 
however , according to stephens , there are no " accidents " in life , and someone will pay for this tragedy , whether that be the manufacturer of the bus or the guardrail the bus broke through . 
he goes through the town , approaching the parents who have lost children , asking them to join the class action suit and find vent for their anger . 
and , for his work , stephens will receive one-third of the settlement money . 
however , it is immediately apparent that stephens has little or no interest in the money . 
he is driven by something else , something deeper that he shares in common with the grieving parents . 
he has lost a child , too , but not in the same manner . 
his daughter , zoe ( caerthan banks ) , who once almost died in his arms as a young child after a spider bite , has been in and out of drug re-hab clinics and detox stations for ten years . 
she calls him on an irregular basis , begging him for money , but refusing to tell him what she needs it for . 
 " i don't know who i'm taking to , " he tells her . 
in his mind , his daughter is dead . 
the lawsuit is , to stephens , not only a way to mend the town's pain , but also his own . 
however , not everyone in town wants it to happen . 
billy ansell ( bruce greenwood ) , who was driving behind the bus when the accident happened and lost two children , wants nothing to do with it . 
he has already lost his wife , and he buries his grief in an affair with a married woman . 
he doesn't want to talk about the accident , and he sees the lawsuit as nothing more than the unnecessary opening of old wounds . 
to him , the town should be able to take care of its own pain , and it doesn't need outsiders like stephens getting in the way . 
central to " the sweet hereafter " is the tale of nicole burnell ( sarah polley ) , a teenage girl who dreams of being a singer before the accident turned her into " a wheelchair girl , " as she puts it . 
aside from stephens , nicole is the most complex character in the film , and it is she who ultimately decides the fate of the town and how the lawsuit will turn out . 
it is also her sad , haunted voice that we often hear on the soundtrack , reading robert browning's poem about the pied piper , and how when he led all the town's children away , one was left behind because he was crippled . 
obviously , nicole is that child , and she feels somehow betrayed that the rest of the town's children left her alone by dying in the wreck . 
her situation is further complicated because she is involved in a loving , but incestuous relationship with her father ( tom mccamus ) . 
there is only one , fleeting scene that suggests this relationship , but it is somehow tied into the final act of the film . 
of all the storylines in " the sweet hereafter , " this is the most complicated and unresolved , although its implications stretch throughout the entirety of the film . 
egoyan knows that the kinds of questions he brings up have no simple answers -- if any at all -- and he doesn't condescend to the audience by trying to neatly wrap it up . 
what egoyan has done in " the sweet hereafter " is really nothing short of miraculous . 
in his adaptation of the novel by russell banks , he has made a deeply moving film about a lawyer by transcending the pettiness of law and driving headlong into the deeper meaning of what is loss , and how pitiful monetary and material possessions are when compared to human life . 
egoyan has always been a talented , but distant and cerebral filmmaker whose work suffered only in that it felt so cold . 
 " the sweet hereafter " is quite the opposite ; egoyan's stylistic and narrative structures work brilliantly to heighten the impact of the natural emotion , and draw the audience into the tragedy . 
 " the sweet hereafter " seems to contain the combined emotional impact that all his other films lacked . 
the film is filled with beautiful , subtle performances from all the actors , especially ian holm as the lawyer and sarah polley as the sad child who was left behind . 
the beautiful , roving camerawork by paul sarossy and the haunting , melodic musical score by mychael danna ( both previous egoyan collaborators ) give the film a visual and aural cohesiveness with the thematic elements . 
like his earlier films , egoyan weaves together multiple storylines that form a blanketing whole . 
he works with time as a fluid substance , shifting back and forth between the past , the distant past , and the present with effortless ease . 
the actual bus wreck itself doesn't happen until midway through the film , but by that time the event has built up so much emotion that egoyan can film it from a distance with no graphic detail , and still have it carry great , devastating weight . 
because human life has become such a cheap commodity in movies , it is astounding that egoyan can convey so much heartbreak in such simple , direct terms . 
certainly one of the best films of 1997 , " the sweet hereafter " is a deeply rewarding , mystifying , and ultimately human film . 
when i first heard about scream in 1996 , i was told that it was a spoof of horror movies . 
from the master of the horror himself , wes craven , it ridiculed the cliches of the genre by overemphasizing them , by making the teenagers do what they know they're not supposed to do when a serial killer is stalking them ( don't run up the stairs when you can easily go out the front door , never say " i'll be right back , " etc . ) . 
when i first heard this description , i figured that it was an easy way out of making a bad movie . 
how hard is it to make an extremely terrible film but claim it is actually a mockery of other bad movies . 
was this wes craven's remedy from making " real " bad movies such as vampires in brooklyn ? 
it just seemed cheap to me . 
then i actually saw the movie and the first twenty minutes , involving drew barrymore and a nail-bitingly intense phone conversation , completely changed my attitude . 
scream is not only a clever parody of your standard horror flick , it's also a pretty scary movie . 
if you've seen a million of these kinds of films , you know exactly what is going to happen . 
this is part of the fun of watching scream . 
the movie reminds avid horror fans how similar and repetitive the genre is and it also reminds them how great a guilty pleasure it can be to watch pointless and predictable violence to innocent , attractive teenagers . 
to those who rarely see these types of movies , scream is a thrilling unpredictable ride that could be mistaken as a serious slasher film . 
there's nothing wrong with that misjudgment though . 
i have witnessed viewers from both sides of the audience , the newbies to horror and the fanatics . 
their opinions on the film were so different but both very positive . 
from these varied reviews , i am convinced that scream has not only revived the teen horror movie and the normal teen romance movies but also the hilarious parodies of these and other categories . 
films that both deride and celebrate genres like galaxy quest and the big hit would not have existed , in my opinion , if it was not for the outstanding success of scream . 
the low - budget 1996 gem may , alongside pulp fiction , be the most influential film of the 1990's . 
this influence may exist to the chagrin of some moviegoers who despise movies like teaching mrs . tingle or television programs such as dawson's creek but to others such as myself , we congratulate the movie that has opened new doors for excellent young actors , screenwriters , and directors . 
scream is also an extremely funny movie thanks to its quickly-paced script by kevin williamson . 
within the film are characters who tell other characters , as well as the audience , the basic rules and cliches of a horror movie . 
mainly from the rants of randy ( jamie kennedy ) and stu ( matthew lillard ) , we are reminded not only of the obvious and hilarious rules but also some of the more subtle stereotypes that when thought over are mostly true as well ( the virgin always survives ; have sex and you're dead meat ) . 
not only are we treated these rules on a plate but also the rules are referenced to a number of different films and actors . 
the script feels like an obsessive essay from a college film geek who has nothing better to do but find every little blunder from every little film for his own self-satisfaction . 
in this case , williamson finds these errors for the audience's satisfaction and amusement . 
i hear there is a new movie coming out called scary movie which is a spoof of scream , which is a spoof of scary movies . 
i will certainly see the film but i have the feeling that this parody will be more obviously ridiculing the genre rather than scream's perfect subtlety . 
however my last gut feeling about this stuff , scream , was dead wrong . . . 
so who knows . 
in present day hanoi , three sisters reflect on their parents' relationship while trying to define their own in writer/director tran anh hung's ( " the scent of green papaya " ) " the vertical ray of the sun . " 
youngest sister lien ( tran nu yen-khe ) greets the day with hai ( ngo quanq hai ) , the only brother whom she rooms and relentlessly flirts with . 
their morning ritual of tai chi and lou reed precedes crossing the street to eldest sister suong's ( nguyen nhu quynh ) cafe , where lien works , for breakfast . 
the three sisters lovingly prepare their mother's memorial banquet of traditional delicacies , prepared as much for look as taste , while giggling over the differences between the sexes . 
after the family breaks from the banquet , we learn that suong's young son 'little monkey' is doted upon , but there's a distance developing with her husband quoc ( chu ngoc hung ) , who's leaving for one of his habitual botanical photography trips . 
middle sister khanh ( tran manh cuong ) tells her writer husband she's pregnant before he leaves on a trip to saigon to research tuan , a mysterious man in his mother-in-law's past . 
lien keeps crawling into hai's bed at night , causing him to fall out of it . 
the initial serenity we witnessed starts turning into a soap opera before coming to full circle one month later , as the three women prepare their father's memorial banquet . 
 " the vertical ray of the sun " is a contemplative piece where strong passions exist underneath calm exteriors . 
sly humor , self deceit and harsh truths all exist in the cyclic screenplay . 
tran anh hung and his cinematographer mark lee ping-bin ( " flowers of shanghai " ) linger over and repeat the small gestures of everyday life - a wife washes her husbands hands , a woman makes water dance in a bowl , a man pulls his lover to face him before they part . 
small spaces such as rooms , alleys and courtyards create intimacy . 
the color green , symbolizing life and tranquility , is used heavily in the film's visual styling , lapsing into yellowish hues and blues . 
writer/director tran anh hung's film recalls ang lee's " eat drink man woman , " another tale of three sisters of varying modernity coming together traditionally for a parent . 
but while lee's more traditionally story-driven film resulted in radical changes for all concerned , " the vertical ray of the sun's " characters strive for peaceful harmony . 
watching it is like trailing your fingertips in a stream on a cool spring day . 
star wars : episode i - the phantom menace review 
a review by jamey hughton stars ) 
starring-liam neeson , ewan mcgregor , natalie portman and jake lloyd director-george lucas rated g 
with all the hype that star wars : episode 1- the phantom menace has been receiving , it seems almost impossible to avoid interest in seeing the film . 
the movie is easily the most anticipated motion picture ever , with a marketing campaign so strong it has brought colonel sanders , the taco bell chihuahua and pizza hut together . 
can george lucas succeed yet again with transporting us back a long time ago , in a galaxy far , far away . . . . ? 
yes . this star wars prequel may be the worst of the bunch , with amateurish dialogue and an overall lack of humanity . 
but that doesn't mean it fails to comply on the basis of solid entertainment . 
the phantom menace features the most eye-catching , jaw-dropping visual look in cinematic history . 
the tremendous action sequences will have you clinging to your arm rest , and the special effects are nothing short of the best ( and most plentiful ) to ever be caught on film . 
the vast digitized worlds and sheer imagination that was applied to this project is astounding . 
the phantom menace is a delectable feast for the senses , even if it has some disappointing aspects . 
after we're treated to the famous prologue in the sky , with john williams' thundering score , we meet qui-gon jonn ( liam neeson ) and young obi-wan kenobi ( ewan mcgregor ) , a jedi master and his trainee `padawan' . 
they are on the ship accommodating the fleet headquarters for the evil trade federation , and have been sent to settle disputes regarding the taxation of trade routes to the planet of naboo . 
oh , but enough about that . 
the prime concern for this prequel is introducing young anakin skywalker ( jake lloyd ) into the picture . 
as you already know , this seemingly charming lad is the boy who will soon become darth vader . 
a spectacular pod race comes soon hereafter . 
this particular race is the most exciting , energetic , high-octane action sequence that you'll ever see . 
one of the delights of the series is meeting the newest set of strange alien creatures that lucas has devised , and the phantom menace is no exception . 
i loved sebulba , the rat-like scoundrel whom anakin has to face in the pod race , and boss nass , the leader of the gungans ( who are a neighbouring species to naboo ) . 
one character who has been subject to criticism is jar-jar binks , a member of the gungan race . 
jar-jar speaks like roger rabbit on a hallucinogenic drug , and is there for the sole purpose of supplying comic relief . 
yes , he is initially annoying , but i can admit to laughing over some of his harmless , goofy antics . 
there is some lack of dramatic pull in this star wars entry , but the presentation almost makes you forget the plot and character lapses . 
the final light-saber battle , between the jedi's and the horrific ( and terminally underused ) villain darth maul , is spectacular to behold . 
jabba the hutt , yoda , c-3po and r2-d2 have cameo appearances . 
lucas has not forget how to captivate an audience , even if his latest shows obvious signs of tiredness . 
one can only wonder what the possible technology will present for the next two installments , episode's i and ii . 
when they arrive , you'll know where to find me . 
bob the happy bastard's quickie review : 
i must admit , no doubt's single " new " is quite catchy . 
it was bouncy and energetic enough to get me to go see this new film from director doug limon , the man who had brought us the humorous swingers a little while back . 
the result ? 
a movie that's just as good as that song , really . 
it follows the lives of several individuals over the course of one weekend . 
first we hear about a grocery bagger ( sara polley ) who runs into a monetary situation problem and ends up selling bogus drugs at a rave ( with bad results , as a drug dealer feels he's been swindled by her ) ; then comes the story of an english grocery store worker ( same store ) who heads to vegas for the weekend with friends , where sex , gunplay , and stolen car trouble come into play ; then we see the story of two gay movie actors ( played by scott wolf and jay mohr ) who deal with a cop's strange insurance presentation and hitting a girl ( sara ) with their car ; and , finally , we come to another grocery worker ( katie holmes ) who has a strange fascination with said drug dealer ( the one mentioned earlier ) . 
really , it's all confusing to keep track of in review format , your best bet is to just , well , go . 
the movie features some very good acting from all angles , and limon adds the same humorous energy he had with swingers to this particular product . 
the dialogue is pretty snappy and the resolution is pretty well realized , not going for the sappy happy ending nor the dreaded bad ending . 
think of it as a , well , ending . 
the intertwining of stories is a particularly good element to the movie , as it's never really confusing and tells different sides of the story , like sliding doors kinda did . 
however , it's better suited for the younger generation who want a little spice in their flicks , which sliding doors kinda isn't . 
while watching " shallow grave , " i found myself periodically noticing thematic similarities to the coens' " blood simple . " 
both are good films in which several characters , none of whom are the most conscientious to have walked the earth but still are not really evil , indulge in an act of deception that soon necessitates more serious crimes . 
the body count rises , and before long seemingly normal people have blood on their hands . 
both films are also flawed , but for different reasons . 
 " blood simple " is unrelentingly dark and moody , but its characterizations were a little hollow . 
 " shallow grave , " on the other hand , is nearly flawless for an hour and twenty minutes , and then the filmmakers throw away much of what they'd accomplished for a more standard , audience-pleasing ending . 
the events of the film were sufficiently intense and disturbing that i honestly felt quite troubled by what i was witnessing on screen most of the time , yet there was a slight grin on my face at the end . 
as the film begins , we are introduced to alex ( ewan mcgregor ) , juliet ( kerry fox ) , and david ( christopher eccleston ) , a scottish trio living in an apartment in glasgow . 
they are all sarcastic and occasionally obnoxious , but other than that they seem like a fairly normal bunch . 
a man named hugo moves into the apartment's remaining vacancy , and the next morning he is found dead of a drug overdose . 
juliet is about to call the police when alex discovers that hugo had brought with him a suitcase filled to the brim with cash ( presumably from criminal activities ) . 
the three eventually decide to keep the money and cover up the death ; after a drawing of straws , the particularly unenviable task of mutilating the body so as to make it unidentifiable and burying it falls to david , who had been the most reluctant to partake in the scheme from the beginning . 
all of this transpires in the first twenty minutes or so of the film , and part of what makes " shallow grave " so brilliant for a while is that i honestly had no idea what was coming next . 
other than the obvious question of why they don't report the death and simply hide the cash , which is not addressed , the plotting and characterization , while sometimes predictable , worked in a way that kept my attention and , on more than one occasion , gave me chills . 
i will , therefore , attempt to continue this review in a way that doesn't give away too much of the plot . 
broadly , the trio are in danger due to hugo's underworld connections , as two goons search for the money and kill several people in the process . 
a police inspector ( ken stott ) is clearly suspicious and visits the apartment , asking pointed questions and trying to unnerve the three suspects by exchanging banal and weirdly humorous bits of dialogue with a junior detective . 
david , meanwhile , becomes increasingly paranoid , moves into the attic , and develops an affinity for sharp objects . 
director danny boyle effectively creates an atmosphere of mounting tension and suspicion in the apartment , and finally the three seem ready to turn against each other . 
while i do not consider myself the " happy endings are automatically stupid " type , i thought that " shallow grave " really should have ended in tragedy - a realistic analysis of the story up to the last ten minutes of the film would indicate that all three characters were probably about to end up in prison , in the mental hospital , or in the morgue . 
this could have been accomplished , quite credibly , but then boyle and screenwriter john hodge seem to flinch and opt for a more conventional " caper " ending in which we get a kick out of seeing who outsmarted whom , and nothing more . 
granted , this isn't really a " happy " ending , but it's still pretty light-hearted compared to what preceded it . 
i really shouldn't say anything more about the ending as far as details go , but let me add that it seemed not only shallow and lazy but also inconsistent with the rest of the film and not very believable . 
yes , this ending made me crack a smile for a couple of minutes , but ultimately it left me feeling as if i'd been cheated . 
still , " shallow grave " was brilliant most of the way through , and it does at least meet the minimum requirements for an entertaining thriller , and i am therefore awarding it three stars . 
i guess i just can't help but think about that fourth star that boyle and hodge let slip away . 
since most movies about slavery shield us from the true horrors of what they're portraying , it's fitting to say that " beloved " come as a real shock as a film . 
it's confusing , bizarre , and as tough a film to watch as any film i've seen all year , and that's not necessarily because of the three-hour running time . 
 " beloved " is challenging to watch , filled with tough and powerful poetry that takes us completely off guard , and instead of a straight-forward , hollywood-ized story about what happened to the slaves after they were freed , " beloved " comes off as a cry of anguish from all those who actually lived through what happened ( or , rather , toni morrison , who wrote the novel upon which this is based ) . 
 " beloved " tells the story of an ex-slave named sethe , played by oprah winfrey , who lives on a large farm in the north with her children . 
when the film opens , her house is being terrorized by a poltergeist , which shakes things up , wounds the dog , and makes things generally uncomfortable for the family . 
sethe is proud , though , and will not move . 
her sons run away , leaving only her and her daughter , denver ( kimberly elise ) alone with the ghost which is there without any factual explanation . 
a couple years pass , and the ghost remains , and one day , a man named paul d ( danny glover ) , another ex-slave who knew sethe years ago when they worked on a plantation together , arrives , asking for lodging . 
he has been wandering around since he left the plantation , and when he enters the house , it turns red and becomes incredibly hot . 
when he remarks about what he thinks is evil , sethe replies " it ain't evil . 
it's just sad . " 
some more time passes , and paul d has become a fervent member of the household , and the ghost disappears . 
but when they return one day from going out , they discover a young woman sitting in the house . 
her name is beloved , and as played by thandie newton , she has almost zero motor skills . 
she stumbles around , half-grabbing onto things and knocking them over , and when she speaks , she lets out a low guttural sound that eventually turns into baby talk . 
they let her into her house , and she begins to turn things upside down . 
 " beloved " acts like an incredibly difficult chamber drama paired with a ghost story . 
most of the scenes consist of people arguing in one claustrophobic , low-lit room , with the occasional flash to the past , where we see images of such horror that we thank god for modern-day psychoanalysts . 
sethe and paul d have lived through such hellish times that they are forever implanted with the memories of their slavehood on the old plantation , which includes such images as sethe being raped by the white plantation hands , with her nipples being licked , prompting her to cry out to paul d when reminiscing about it , " they took my milk ! " 
worst of all was the month after her freedom , when she was allowed to live like a free person , working with other blacks on a farm , and then seeing that her old plantation owners have arrived to presumedly take her and her children back . 
she runs to the barn near by , carrying her four children , and when her old owners burst in , they discover she has murdered one of them and is ready to murder the rest of them if they don't leave them alone . 
when she is inquired about this moment by paul d in a moment halfway through the film , she says she doesn't regret it . 
she killed her daughter so that she would not have to live through the horror she did , and she has convinced herself she did the right thing . 
of course , beloved is really her daugher materialized , though we aren't flat out told that until later on in the film . 
beloved represents the pain and suffering the slaves went through and shows how difficult it was for them to deal with their freedom after being tortured for so long . 
thus , " beloved " becomes a sorta-redux of the andrei tarkofsky sci-fi classic , " solaris , " where a cosmonaut discovers that his wife , who commited suicide years before , has materialized when he is orbiting over a planet with a complex brain system . 
that film spoke volumes about humanity and our memories , how we are constantly regretting what happened in the past , and when if it ever literally came back to haunt us , it would control us completely . 
 " beloved " moves along freely , without a lot of explanation , and for the most part , this is extremely respectable . 
the most interesting films are the ones that don't explain everything for us , leaving gaps in the characters that we are supposed to fill in with how they act in the present tense . 
sethe is never fully explained as a character , but we understand all her actions since she's being played by oprah winfrey . 
it's been well over a decade since her last major performance in " the color purple , " but judging from these two films , i'll bet she's one of the best actresses working today . . . if 
she was strictly an actress . 
her talk show , which i suppose is a great entity , has prevented her from becoming a noteworthy actress , and that's a shame because she brings so much to this movie . 
emotion . 
sadness . 
strength . 
watching the strong sethe , who's so afraid of the past that she's built a rather strong protective coating around herself , break down when she discovers who beloved really is is what makes this movie really great . 
she makes it real . 
that's not to say this is a perfect film . 
in fact , i'd wager to say that the fact that it's confusing and painful to watch is what prevents this from being the truly great film it is . 
while oprah's performance is powerful and easily sympathetic ( and i'm dying to see her win at least an oscar nomination this february ) , the structure of the film , which doesn't show what happened to her children till halfway through the film , prevents us from really making a cohesive connection to the film . 
it doesn't necessarily move as though they're memories of one particular character , and by the end , it has lost control over sethe , and as she takes to bed , we are unable to truly identify with her anymore . 
but despite its tediousness , perhaps that's the point . 
the distancing by the end of the film may be just part of the way it has been built from the start , since they figure she has crossed over from being identifiable , and it needs to get back with reality . 
and for the most part , this film seems like the cry of pain from the slaves that it really wants to be . 
jonathan demme's direction is bizarre , in nature with the story , and he creates the right mood , making it a tough film to sit through , making sure that the audience feels as uncomfortable as the characters . 
there's more to admire here , like the way that the flashbacks pop up freely and without real organization , just like they would be in real life ; and the way that the ending leaves it somewhat open to more pain and suffering , but laced with a touch of optimism . 
the acting , not only from winfrey , is amazing , and i anticipate not only she will get an oscar nomination . 
everyone has been raving about thandie newton's performance , and how it should be rewarded . 
however , it must be noted that out of everyone , she had the easiest part . 
act like a baby . 
throw things . 
stumble around . 
chew food with your mouth open . 
i do think there's another performance worthy of oscar conisderation , but it's kimberly elise , as the daugher who has to stay sensible and sane , and has to carry the burden of her mother's loss of reality towards the end . 
it's not that newton isn't great : she's as annoying and wacky as the role demands . 
it's just that elise has the tougher job and pulls it off even better . 
despite the fact that this film has winfrey written all over it , and not that of writer morrison or director demme , " beloved " has still not done well . 
costing , i think , around ninety million dollars , it has since grossed about twenty-two . 
unfortunately , this film is a little too intense for viewers , even for me , and i can stand almost anything ( i recently viewed the 2 1/2 hour long epic " caligula , " the worst film i have ever seen in my life , and did it in a mere 2 sittings ) . 
although i respect " beloved , " i can't say that i really enjoyed it . 
usually a movie is about something more than a soiled rug , but not the big lebowski . 
the new offering from the creators of 1996's critical hit fargo , is to say the least , wildly entertaining . 
originality has always been a strong trait in the coen brother's movies , and the big lebowski is insanely original . 
it begins oddly enough when jeff " the dude " lebowski ( jeff bridges ) is mistaken for a millionaire , jeff " the big " lebowski ( david huddleston ) , who's wife , bunny ( tara reid ) owes money all over town . 
two goons , out to collect on bunny's debt break into dude's house . 
they attempt to collect the money that bunny owes them and one of them urinates on his rug . 
the next day dude explains his situation to his bowling team ( steve buscemi & john goodman , respectively . ) 
he is advised to go to the big lebowski and get him to pay for the defiled rug . 
he does this , and shortly after gets tied up in a kidnapping caper . 
this is a extremely funny movie with lots of belly laugh moments . 
the coen brothers have assembled a great cast that play off each other perfectly . 
also several great supporting roles , john turturro as a child molesting bowler named jesus . 
the coen's script plays off perfectly and it all goes together to make it extremely entertaining . 
i doubt this movie will be nearly as popular as fargo , but its off the wall moments make it so far the best of 1998 . 
if you like anything else the coen brothers have done you will love this one , if not they give this one a try its a little different . 
with the opening scene of a young couple in a van pulling up , loading their guns , kissing each other and uttering what sounds like " rock and roll ! " 
 ( actually , it's " lock and load " ) , you can't help thinking tarantino . 
and of course with its storyline of a crazy girl and boy in love who turn to violent bank robbery , the film unapologetically takes its place alongside all those other films from bonnie & clyde to natural born killers . 
but if most of those movies have their roots in pulp fiction , exploring a modern myth of the doomed rebels on the run , normal life takes a much more psychologically realistic look at the phenomenon . 
 " inspired by true events " -- we've heard that one before , and yet in no other tale of violent couples has it seemed so solidly demonstrated . . . 
or so strangely poignant . 
for this is a story of real people whose lives take on a steadily unreal quality , who in their search for a normal life find themselves increasingly unhinged . 
beginning with their final arrest , the film goes back to trace the relationship between chris ( luke perry ) , a policeman , and pam ( ashley judd ) , a factory worker . 
they fall in love and marry , but pam's increasingly erratic behaviour ( going on spending sprees , slashing herself with a knife after an argument ) begin to trouble the solid and stable chris . 
when chris gets sacked , they find themselves heavily in debt and near breaking up . 
then , chris begins to rob banks . . . 
luke perry accomplishes the not-inconsiderable feat of making us nearly forget that he was ever in beverly hills 90210 or buffy the vampire slayer . 
moustached , with a tough paternal look and yet a voice and eyes that suggest sadness verging on exasperation , he is perfectly cast as the long-suffering husband . 
 ( it's another of john mcnaughton's coups of casting-against-type , after transforming robert de niro into nerd and bill murray into gangster in mad dog and glory ) . 
but it is the character of pam who commands centrestage , and ashley judd rises to the challenge with great alternating currents of ferocity and tenderness , making pam into a fascinating yet often infuriating person . 
if the performance falls short of greatness , however , it is perhaps because the role of the mad woman has been done so often before it is virtually a staple of cinema , whether it's in betty blue , tom & viv or georgia . 
as in those movies , there's the danger that the performance seems mannered , a collection of screwy tics and tantrums designed for the oscar presentation piece . 
judd doesn't entirely avoid this pitfall , but pam's 'craziness' is best and most movingly presented in counterpoint to the more 'normal' chris . 
when pam reacts to her father-in-law's death by showing up at the funeral in rollerblades and blaring headphones , chris' face is the picture of pained restraint . 
of course , it's the question of what is 'normal' that is asked in normal life . 
mcnaughton constantly offers up the ironies of the aspirations for the average domestic life and its kinship with insanity . 
it is the rational chris that loves guns ( " shooting is about precision , control " ) and the 'crazy' pam that loves astronomy and yearns for a dog ( who is then called chaos -- " chaos and you and me . . . 
we're a real family " , she notes wryly ) . 
it is chris' methodical mind and his knowledge of police procedure that allows him to be such a successful bank robber ( his well-planned disguise as a bearded , roaring man of terror is another piece of method in madness ) . 
in the carpark where he sets out for his first robbery , a huge sign on a shopping mall stands out in the background : " buy-more " -- the perfectly respectable consumption-crazy american dream that has driven pam to her extravagant purchases , and both of them into desperate situations . 
it's not a perfect film . 
some of the dialogue is a touch too banal ( perhaps intentionally ? ) . 
the use of the punk hardcore soundtrack in pam's crazed scenes comes rather too close to making emotional disturbance seem glamourous and sexy an image which only detracts from the rest of the film . 
indeed , as in mcnaughton's seminal film henry : portrait of a serial killer , it is the avoidance of glamour or sensationalism , the denial of some of the standard thrills of the outlaw film genre , that gives this determinedly unflashy , moving film its great strengths . 
mcnaughton has filmed this story with a quiet , coolly 'realistic' method that works far better than any nbk theatrics at unsettling the viewer . 
the suburbs , with their miles of white-fenced houses and identikit malls , take on a sense of claustrophobic blankness . 
in its very different way , this makes for as haunting a backdrop as the wide open spaces in terence malick's badlands . 
while pam shares the yearnings of malick's heroes to escape from ordinary life , chris takes up crime precisely so that they can lead a 'normal life' - their little house on the suburbs is financed by his violent robberies . 
but these are dreams defined by , constrained by , and even doomed by , the limitations of the 'normal' , conventional world . 
pam's final scene takes place at the edge of the suburbs , where wild bushes grow -- symbolically the frontier , the outer limits of her society , but also quite literally the end of the road , where there is nowhere left to go but to the final tragic denouement . 
the flying inkpot's rating system : * wait for the video . 
 * * a little creaky , but still better than staying at home with gotcha ! 
 * * * pretty good , bring a friend . 
 * * * * amazing , potent stuff . 
 * * * * * perfection . 
see it twice . 
it's not often that i laugh so hard at a movie that my head hurts . 
but that's just what happened to me at uhf , weird al yankovic's big screen debut . 
uhf is a television parody a la airplane , and like airplane , the movie is extraordinarily stupid . 
but it's dumb in the best way a movie can be dumb : it's so silly and outrageous it's hilarious . 
the movie stars weird al as george newman , a world class nerd with a hyperactive imagination , the type who fantasizes he's indiana jones and who uses hostess twinkies as hot dog buns . 
george is basically a loser ; his daydreams and smart-alec attitude perpetually prevent him from holding onto a job for more than two weeks . 
but george finally gets a chance to funnel his creativity into something productive when his uncle wins channel 62 in a poker game and makes him the general manager of the struggling uhf television station . 
george revives channel 62 with innovative programming : shows like " wheel of fish " and movies like " conan , the librarian . " 
as the station's ratings rise , it comes into competition with channel 8 , the leading vhf network-affiliate . 
as r . j . 
fletcher--channel 8's ill-natured , hard-nosed owner--veteran stage and film actor kevin mccarthy is flamboyantly sleazy ; he really hams it up with his snorts , grimaces , and scowls . 
uhf satirizes anything and everything to do with television , including game shows , tabloid talk shows , children's shows , dizzy news women , and movies--everything from rambo to close encounters . 
the funniest scene , the one that made my head spin , is a commercial for spatulas which has to be seen to be believed . 
like most movies in its genre , uhf is hit or miss . 
for every gag that works , at least one fizzles . 
for instance , weird al's mock video of " money for nothing " by dire straits is only mildly amusing and brings the film to a grinding halt ( although it does have some nifty computer animation ) . 
but the funniest bits in uhf are so hysterical that we can forgive the ones that fail ; we know another gut wrencher is on the way . 
in fact , uhf hits the mark often enough to make it the most effective airplane-type movie since . . . 
well , since airplane . 
much of the credit goes to weird al's exceptionally inventive script and to the movie's winsome cast . 
weird al seems a little stiff at the beginning , but because he's not afraid to look silly , he ultimately has a lot of fun with his character . 
the real standout is michael richards as stanley , the dim-witted janitor who becomes the host of his own children's show : " stanley spadowski's playhouse . " 
stanley's off-beat , mixed-up personality is a big hit with the audience and makes him an over-night star . 
he is an endearing mixture of good-natured innocence , high-energy enthusiasm , and puppy-dog cuteness . 
and above all , he's a good janitor who adores his work . 
another highlight is a vintage cameo by the incomparable emo philips . 
the cast also features gedde watanabe ( the chinese foreign-exchange student in sixteen candles ) as the karate master who hosts the hit series , " wheel of fish . " 
also aboard for the ride is fran drescher , who plays pamela finklestein , channel 62's roving reporter . 
unfortunately , as weird al's girlfriend , victoria jackson is wasted in a role that calls for nothing but whimpering , whining , and sulking . 
her character is extraneous and should have been either further integrated into the story or cut from the script altogether . 
while uhf is not an absolute must-see , it's definitely the ticket if you're looking for a wild and zany , whacked-out comedy . 
the movie is good enough to see in the theaters , but it may work even better on television , the very medium at which it pokes fun . 
it's hard not to recommend " the others . " 
the supernatural thriller , written and directed by alejandro amen ? bar ( " open your eyes " ) , adroitly establishes and maintains a low-key atmosphere of menace . 
the cinematography , by javier aguirresarobe , is as good as i have ever seen and nicole kidman gives another in her growing body of fine performances . 
but the pacing of the story moves from deliberate to downright sluggish and the payoff of the tale left me less than satisfied . 
overall , the film plays like a very high quality version of any number of old " twilight zone " episodes where the characters spend a great deal of time wandering about looking afraid and disoriented , only to learn they are actually a child's toy , a military test subject or a department store dummy . 
watching those vintage shows and listening to the players chatter , i always wanted to shout , " get on with it ! " 
as much as i appreciated the atmosphere and acting in " the others , " my reaction was much the same . 
set at an island mansion off the coast of england during world war ii , the story focuses on grace ( kidman ) , who tends to her children anne ( alakina mann ) and nicholas ( james bentley ) and worries about her husband , charles ( christopher eccleston ) , a missing serviceman . 
anne and nicholas suffer from photosensitivity and grace patrols the estate with the keys to all 50 doors , protecting the little ones from excess light by making sure that only one door is open at a time . 
at the beginning of the film , three servants , mrs . mills ( fionnula flanagan ) , young , mute lydia ( elaine cassidy ) , and mr . tuttle ( eric sykes ) , an aging gardener , join the family . 
the two that speak seem agreeable enough at first , but it soon becomes apparent that they know something that grace does not . 
to make matters worse , the children are upset : nicholas is unusually jittery and anne claims to be seeing ghosts . 
grace attempts to blame the troubles on the new arrivals to her home , only to realize that whatever is happening is beyond them . 
that's essentially the whole story , with the tension growing until the pivotal moment when everything becomes clear . 
earlier , there is an outstanding scene where grace darts outside , only to be enveloped in fold after fold of shimmering fog . 
the visuals in the otherworldly sequence , courtesy of aguirresarobe , are simply astounding . 
i also enjoyed the presence of religion , a rarity in films dealing with the supernatural . 
grace is a christian and answers her children's questions about life and death with the assurance of a devout worshiper . 
when mother is away , though , the kids speculate whether her statements are fact or folklore , just as real children do . 
but those nice touches fail to enliven a film that is too slow or make up for a lackluster ending . 
 " the others " sets out to be a classic ghost story , but fails to grasp that special something that makes such films more than layers of mist . 
 " a private matter " is based on the true story of sherri finkbine and the events in her life during the 1960s . 
after becoming pregnant ( for the fifth time ) she learns that some tranquilizers she had taken have seriously deformed her unborn child . 
she and her husband decide , with the help of her doctor , to have an abortion . 
but this is the 1960s , and abortion is illegal . 
her doctor has made arrangements to have the procedure performed withing the law , by claiming that the child is endangering the mother's life . 
everything is about to work out just fine , until sherri has the uncontrollable urge to talk about her situation with a local reporter . 
this sets off a media frenzy and immediately sherri is the most hated woman in the world . 
she and her husband are fired from their jobs , reporters are surrounding their home at all times , and most importantly , no one in the country ( and eventually other countries ) will perform the abortion . 
this causes emotion problems for all involved . 
 " a private matter " is a fascinating story and it's hard to believe that this only happened 30 years or so ago . 
it's only flaw is that not once is there ever a satisfactory confrontation with sherri and any of her opponents . 
one woman passing her on the street telss her to burn in hell , and when sherri appropriately yells back , " just tell me what i'm supposed to do , " the woman has no answer . 
no one apparently had an answer , they just wanted to control what should have been only the choice of sherri and her husband . 
this is an important film , telling an important story . 
it's not just about not wanting another child , it's about not wanting a child who will cause severe changes in their family , none of which could be beneficial . 
sydney pollack served as executive producer for this made for hbo movie . 
director jan de bont certainly knows how to make top quality action films . 
you need look no further than die hard ( he was director of photography ) , speed and last years twister for examples of his hi- octane , edge of your seat thrill prowess . 
speed 2 is no exception . 
this time , the action takes place on a huge cruise liner , on which sandra bullock and jason patrick are trying to develop their relationship . 
yep , that's right , no keanu reeves this time , but fear not , jason patrick is more than up to the job . 
speaking of which , the job at hand is to stop completely bonkers terrorist , willem dafoe , from crashing the liner into a huge island , after stealing a diamond collection . 
the reason for this act of destruction is revenge . 
after years of working for the company that builds cruise liner computers , he contracts copper poisoning and is retired . 
naturally , what entails next is a lot of running/jumping about and general high quality action as jason patrick does his level best to save the day . 
thinking back on this film , you can't help , but admire it's structure . 
the way , willem dafoe initiates his plan and throws red herrings to the crew and passengers . 
the race against time to save the liner from crashing , and of course , the finale chase scence . 
 ( although this is ruined by an over the top , one too many stunt and explosion . ) 
simple in construction , effective in it's execution , and the result , a clear and concise , highly enjoyable action film . 
the acting is adequate , although it's darned obvious that sandra bullock is only in it to create a 'hot totty' appeal to the men ( and she does that perfectly ! ) , jason patrick fills the action hero role superbly and willem dafoe is just great as the crazed terrorist . 
overall , speed 2 is a most enjoyable thrill ride . 
not up to it's predecessor's high calibre but very good all the same . 
there is plenty going on , some of the thrills are quite tense and it also proves that you do not need blood and guts to make a good action movie . 
after indecent proposal and up close and personal , redford was wise to direct himself in a picture at last . 
redford may look great on-screen , but over the past few years , he's proven himself a bigger talent behind the camera . 
ordinary people is one of the best films of the nineteen-eighties , and it was the first picture he helmed . 
while the milagro beanfield war was only occasionally successful at combining magic-realism with . . . um , 
realism , and i've never been much of a fan of a river runs through it ( to the chagrin of many ) , quiz show was dazzling , energetic and convincing . 
the horse whisperer represents both his directorial return to nature films and the first time in that sub-genre redford seems equally concerned with humans and scenery . 
scott-thomas plays annie maclean , an uptight but respected new york magazine editor whose daughter grace ( johanssen ) loses a leg and a good friend when an early morning ride climaxes with their horses colliding with a semi . 
grace's horse survived , but barely , and has gone mad . 
annie refuses to put the animal out of his misery , believing that if the horse heals it will mend grace's newly-broken spirit . 
eventually , mother and daughter travel alone to montana to be with tom booker ( redford ) , a famed " horse whisperer " who has a gift of calming horses with simple looks and touches , leaving busy husband neill behind . 
eventually , they move onto the booker ranch with the rest of tom's family , and annie finds herself falling in love with all things montana , including , naturally , tom , the wise and lonely trainer . 
the horse whisperer is delicately made . 
i dare say lyrical , since to many people's ear , that word is synonymous with boring . 
hardly . 
the horse whisperer has little to offer in the way of surprise , but it does have an honesty that is refreshing and consistently enjoyable to watch , especially in the final third of the story . 
scott-thomas and johanssen seem like mother and daughter , and you have no doubt believing that the mountain vistas would put these new yorkers under a spell , especially since d . p . 
robert richardson's photography casts montana as heaven on earth . 
 ( a gimmicky but effective technique the filmmakers employ is a switch in aspect ratio from squarish to widescreen when the central location shifts from new york to montana . ) 
the underrated sam neill turns in perhaps his most heartfelt , emotive performance as the nice-guy husband , who is as authoritive and likeable as tom . 
he is indeed a refreshing change from the sexist , lout of a husband so many writers resort to as a short-cut for explaining away the cheating spouse's motivation . 
unfortunately , one of the horse whisperer's only flaws is the chemistry between would-be lovers scott-thomas and redford . 
i liked both of them , but i didn't necessarily believe that redford would fall for such a cold fish , even if the countryside air thawed her slightly . 
luckily ( and curiously ) , this is such a rich and textured movie that it doesn't quite matter-their adultery seems like an afterthought , the obligatory sub-plot that ties many of the characters' complex relationships together . 
sam ( matthew broderick ) is an astronomer in a small american town and engaged to teacher linda ( kelly preston ) . 
he is head over heels in love and lindas sudden departure to new york city to live with her new lover anton ( tch ? ky karyo ) comes as a complete surprise to him . 
but as we all know love is blind and so sam leaves for new york as well to win her back . 
he moves into an abandoned house across the street from anton's apartment and installs a camera obscura to watch them . 
suddenly anton's ex maggie shows up , but she does not want her former lover back . 
on the contrary , all she wants to do is vaporize him . 
she may say that she doesn't want to kill him , but the possibility doesn't bother her too much either . 
after all , people die every day . 
in spite of their different motives the two team up and fall for each other as things move on . 
the story sounds like something we all have seen a million times . 
but we haven't . 
griffin dunne brings us the most charming comedy since " while you where sleeping " . 
the camera obscura adds a " special something " to the movie and makes it an exceptional romantic comedy . 
everything about the movie is perfect , from set design to casting . 
the dialogues are inspired and the touches of black humor add a certain bite . 
meg ryan , known from " when harry met sally " or " sleepless in seattle " , surprises in a role that may finally help her get rid of her sweet little girl image . 
she impresses the viewer as a maneating biker girl . 
even more surprising is the fact that the viewer believes her , much more so than in last years " courage under fire " where she played a gulf war pilot . 
matthew broderick is the goodnatured and somewhat naive sam who has trouble accepting reality . 
the viewer can tell that he doesn't only watch the stars but also tries to reach out for them . 
he has trouble keeping in touch with reality . 
after all , who would leave everything behind to chase a lost love ? 
his naivet ? that we don't question for a minute throughout the movie clashes with maggies exaggerated wish for revenge . 
she would do anything to harm anton . 
she doesn't hesitate to use sam for her plan and makes him understand right from the beginning that nothing will happen between the two of them . 
that makes the scenes when they innocently share a bed , have potatoe chips and watch the action across the street like a saturday night show on tv even funnier . 
tch ? ky karyo is perfect as anton . 
he is , well , repulsive . 
that's all there is to say about him . 
you can't really manage to pity him , even after all his mishaps . 
he not only took sam's bride away from him , he is also a french chef . 
worlds collide , i . 
e . 
the usa and france . 
this can only go wrong . 
even if maggies revenge schemes are at times shocking , you just can't sympathize with a man who plays " je t'aime . . . moi 
non plus " on his tape deck . 
not everyone is captured by the french charme that linda and even maggie fell for . 
sam certainly isn't . 
too bad for anton . 
for him things take a turn to the worse . 
 " addicted to love " is one of this year's most pleasant surprises . 
copyright 1996 graeme huggan carry on henry is all about henry viii and his eight wives ! 
sid james plays henry , who no sooner has the film started , is getting rid of his present queen and hopes to find another one soon . 
as part of his alliance with france , he requests the hand-in-marriage to the queen of normandy ( joan sims ) . 
she comes to england in the hope of marrying henry but when he finds out that she loves garlic and has a reeking garlic breath , he is totally averse to the idea of marriage . 
henry's court is very corrupt , with the cardinal ( terry scott ) trying to bribe cromwell ( kenneth williams ) and cromwell trying to bribe the king . 
there is a state of crisis when the king puts marie the queen ( sims ) in the tower of london ready for execution . 
the queen is pregnant but she has not liased with the king before , so fingers are pointed at sir roger de lodgerley played by charles hawtrey , who has a rather lecherous character to play this time . 
the cardinal and cromwell decide to get a signed confession from sir roger by using all kinds of torture devices ! 
owing to circumstances , sir roger is sometimes needed to sign that he is the father and sometimes that he isn't . 
this is because of renewed threats by the king of france ( peter gilmore ) to come over himself , which in the end he does . 
by then , henry has found himself a new queen , played by none other than barbara windsor ! 
it looks like he has some explaining to do ! 
there are stand-out performances by sid james as henry , joan sims as marie , and terry scott in an unusual role as the cardinal . 
also there are cameos from kenneth connor and peter butterworth , who plays barbara's father . 
the set and costume design is first class and the overall production of this film is good . 
there is even an early appearance from david prowse , who later became the green cross code man and darth vader . 
the film does have it's downsides though , as it is getting pretty routine for the carry-on team to stage historical films and the inventive streak of the script seems to run out pretty quickly . 
there is also the absence of hattie jacques and bernard bresslaw , who could have helped the film along . 
however , overall the film is funny and there are plenty of laughs and saucy jokes , so that is why i mainly recommend it to carry on fans only , but there is enough humour in the film to make it worth anyone's while to sit down and watch it . 
this " dumb " cowboy blondie who thinks he is a `darn' good loverboy , decides to leave his dusty ol' town somewhere in texas and go to new york . 
he puts on his beloved cowboy attire and off he hops on the next new york coach . 
when he arrives to new york , he immediately sets out to play mr playboy thinking he is the best `darn' `stud' in the whol'o' new york city . 
obviously he fails . 
he meets the 'cripple' rico ( dustin hoffman , who is terrifically good ) in a bar . 
rico has a leg that is paralysed from the knee down , so he walks in a peculiar way . 
rico is a thief and wants to get some money off this 'rich' dumb cowboy . 
he cheats our cowboy out of $20 through a somewhat detailed routine and disappears . 
soon , our cowboy runs out of money : he gets kicked out of his hotel , and starts getting hungry . 
walking through the city , with " everybody's talkin' " playing in the background ( oh , and his prided techno transistor radio in hand ) , he spots rico in a cafe . 
rico , half-scared , pours out all the money in his pocket . 
60 filthy cents . 
our cowboy , hungry , is forgiving . 
he is glad he found someone he knows . 
rico offers to make it up for him . 
and he invites him to his place . 
and what a filthy , cold place it is . 
our cowboy falls asleep instantly in the ( junk ) bed . 
when he finally wakes ( jumps ? ) 
up , he finds rico looking at him . 
 " you wanna cup'a'coffee ? " 
rico asks in his friendly , sleazy , somewhat-childish manner while he smokes on a ciggy . 
 " what're you ? 
a goddamn faggot ? 
what do you want from me ? 
where are my shoes ? 
what did you do to them ? " 
but all his doubts turn out to be unfounded . 
rico really has a heart . 
together , they live in the junk apartment and almost freeze to death . 
rico is convinced that the best place to be is florida , where the sun shines beautifully and there are lots of coconut trees . 
but he falls sick and is convinced that his cure is to go to florida . 
 " we will soon be in miami " is the last sentence uttered in this film and what a shocking , moving end of a film it is . 
the classic theme music : " midnight cowboy " helps bring about the feeling of attachment that most viewers will experience towards the end of the film . 
whether the attachment is to the two main characters or to their dreams , is probably as debatable as whether it was the acting or the direction that makes this film so memorable . 
playwright tom stoppard and screenwriter marc norman took on an astonishingly difficult task : they wanted to write a script about william shakespeare that parallels shakespeare's works . 
they also wanted to poke fun at the way all of us envision shakespeare : i mean , really , who doesn't think of shakespeare as a guy seething with so much passion that he can barely write a play without exploding into a passionate , introspective verbal couplet of iambic pentameter ? 
stoppard and norman are men who love shakespeare , and they wanted to make a movie for everyone else who loves shakespeare . 
and , despite the difficulty of their task , they have succeeded . 
shakespeare in love is one of the smartest , funniest , most touching films of the year . 
it's so rare that a picture with such high aspirations succeeds in all of its endeavors , but here we have a movie that defines success : it is at once charmingly acted and flawlessly written . 
it could have been a smug , self-important movie that panders to die-hard shakespeare fans , but the appeal of this film is almost universal : if you've ever read a play by shakespeare , or know anything about his life , it's likely that you'll find grand entertainment in shakespeare in love . 
joseph fiennes , brother of ralph , stars as shakespeare himself ; he's a delightful , irresistible lad , concerned mostly with women and detached from life's more serious problems ( debt , plague , etc . ) . 
he's commissioned to write plays for various people : queen elizabeth ( judi dench ) wants comedies , while local slimeball philip henslowe ( geoffrey rush ) needs him to write a play so that he can pay off his debts to hugh fennymann ( tom wilkinson ) . 
shakespeare , however , has trouble focusing on his work . 
he begins work on a comedy about a boy named romeo and a girl named ethel . 
this all changes , however , when he meets viola de lesseps ( a radiant gwyneth paltrow ) , a young heiress set to marry the financially-oriented lord wessex ( colin firth ) . 
shakespeare instantly falls in love with her ; he first meets her when she pretends to be a man to try out for the part of romeo . 
he discovers her identity and confronts her later ; she , of course , falls in love with him , although their love is doomed because she absolutely must marry the tyrannical lord wessex . 
but she continues to act because she loves shakespeare's writing so much , and soon the production ( which later becomes romeo and juliet ) is set to be performed . 
shakespeare in love is an amazingly good film , not because it works as great entertainment , but because it pays attention to detail and knows its subject matter . 
i was instantly won over by joseph fiennes in the lead role : he has such searing optimism and energy ; he's clearly a man who admires shakespeare , and even in the shortcomings that he gives his character ( inability to turn away from women , attention deficit disorder ) , we sense a great deal of affection and care . 
he practically overflows with passion in every scene . 
fiennes is matched by paltrow ( whose english accent is so good that wonder where she actually comes from ) ; she is an actress who exudes strength and conviction in every performance i've seen her in . 
the two performers work perfectly together , taking the passionate scenes as far as possible without making them melodramatic , and wringing the comedic scenes for every conceivable laugh . 
of course , it doesn't hurt that they have a masterful script to work with . 
stoppard , whose play rozencrantz and guildenstern are dead inspired an interesting film , is full of dry wit and boundless understated humor ( all of his plays have similarly dry humor ) . 
the first intelligent step stoppard and norman took was harmonizing the events of the film with romeo and juliet . 
one of the funniest scenes in the film is an imitation of the famous terrace scene from the play ; in the movie , shakespeare is bumbling about while viola is trying to fend off her nurse maid . 
director john madden does a fantastic job dabbling in slapstick humor -- scenes like these would have seemed obtuse in the hands of a lesser director . 
i'm going to have to see the movie again ; i'm certain there are numerous references that i missed . 
in fact , i doubt it's possible to gather everything with just one viewing . 
stoppard is a master of detail : you'll notice familiar lines placed throughout the film , not as lines of a play , but as dialogue , suggesting that shakespeare simply spoke like that all the time . 
there's also a brilliant running joke in which shakespeare is in constant competition with christopher marlowe ( and the fact that marlowe is played by the openly-homosexual rupert everett is a joke in of itself ) , proposing a slightly twisted explanation to marlowe's mysterious death in a pub . 
there's also a scene featuring a wide-eyed dog that is so funny that i hurt myself laughing . 
 " there's no dog in this play ? " 
 " no ! 
no dog ! " 
the ensemble cast is perhaps the strongest this year . 
geoffrey rush is nearly unrecognizable as the detestable henslowe ; wilkinson is also hard to recognize , but has a great role as a thug who takes his part as the apothecary so seriously . 
ben affleck , playing one of the actors in the company , shows great range , both in his accent ( his is almost as good as paltrow's ) and in humor ( he has some of the best one-liners in the movie ) . 
colin firth , always stuck playing the sap , does a good job being hateful . 
judi dench , however , has the best supporting performance as queen elizabeth : rarely has so much depth been conveyed in so few words . 
my single , minor complaint about shakespeare in love is that i feel like i could have been more moved by the end . 
the story is moving , but there are a few missed opportunities in the final scenes . 
but my quibbling is not important . 
what is important is that i acknowledge the quality of this picture , the sheer skill with which it has been written , acted , and produced . 
shakespeare in love tries so many things , and nails every one of them : it's a film that both loves shakespeare and makes fun of him , a film in which the actors , writers , and director are all perfectly in sync . 
it's also a movie that has the potential to introduce a lot of people to shakespeare's work in a positive way , without seeming condescending or superior . 
i admire this film not only because it passes so pleasantly , but because it has lofty aspirations and succeeds in them . 
not just any film can poke fun at shakespeare and get away with it . 
titantic , writer and director james cameron's much anticipated and sometimes ridiculed $200 , 000 , 000 epic , arrives shortly into the theaters so the question naturally arises , whether the film is worth it ? 
as a business proposition , it seems hard to see how it can ever break even , but as a movie it is nothing short of wonderful . 
if you've already neatly categorized it as yet another disaster movie a la volcano or the poseidon adventure , think again . 
the movie is both a great love story told with the disaster as a backdrop and a portrayal of one of the world's most memorable disasters made real and personal by seeing it through the eyes of two young lovers . 
in either case , it is filmmaking at its best . 
when we entered the press screening , my wife asked the publicity rep if there would be an intermission since the film runs three and a quarter hours long . 
he said no but that the time would go by so fast she'd never notice the length . 
amazingly , he was right . 
titanic is one of the few long films that doesn't suffer because of it . 
the lush picture , filmed by russell carpenter in 70mm , opens in the present with two diving subs exploring the wreck of the titanic on the bottom of the ocean . 
fortune hunter brock lovett ( bill paxton ) leads the expedition looking for the world's most valuable diamond necklace that went down with the ship , known back then as " the ship of dreams . " 
the necklace's hundred-year-old former owner , rose dewitt bukater ( gloria stuart ) , finds brock to tell him her story . 
although almost all of the movie happens in flashback , one of the engineers shows the elderly rose exactly how the ship was sunk . 
using a computer simulation , the movie takes the time to explain what will happen later , which adds immensely to making a lucid story out of what would have otherwise been hopelessly confusing . 
after twenty minutes , the story makes its jump to the past as the titanic leaves on her maiden voyage . 
in a classic movie theme , the two parts of the ship , first class and steerage ( third-class ) exist in sharp contrast . 
the strength of the script is the way it paints the differences between rich and poor without excessive moralizing . 
entering the ship on its day out is rose along with her millionaire fiance , cal hockley , played with perfect snobbishness by billy zane . 
and thanks to a last minute winning poker hand , an itinerant artist named jack dawson gets himself into a little shared cabin in third class . 
even with her own promenade deck , rose feels trapped on the ship , what with an upcoming marriage to a man she loathes . 
in contrast , jack can barely contain his euphoria at being on board . 
after jack saves rose from committing suicide , they start a brief but impassioned love affair . 
never tawdry and rarely explicit , their romance has the power to sweep the audience into the story . 
leonardo dicaprio in his best performance ever plays jack with confidence and charisma . 
in so many ways , small and large , he makes all the right decisions in his approach to the part . 
when he confronts cal , for example , he remains composed and polite and yet subtly undermines every one of cal's supercilious put-downs . 
kate winslet gives a wonderfully captivating performance as young rose . 
the chemistry between these two academy award nominees , him for what's eating gilbert grape and her for sense and sensibility , is nothing short of astonishing . 
from the scene where he embarrasses her by repeatedly asking if she loves her finace to the beautiful one of them hanging off the ship's bow to the one where she embarrasses him by asking him to paint her nude , they dazzle the screen with a pair of mesmerizing performances . 
if the film breaks after an hour and a half , which is how long cameron wisely waits to have the iceberg show up , you will still get one of the best films of the year . 
peter lamont's sets are more than authentic . 
one scene , for example , starts with the planning-to-retire captain , played with insouciance by bernard hill , having his tea on deck . 
it then shifts to the ship's massive gears and then to the bright-hot boiler room filled with sweating muscular men shoveling in the coals . 
the handsome interior common rooms of the ship resemble a palace more than an ocean liner . 
easily the most fascinating part of the story is what happens after the iceberg hits and before the battle with the water begins in earnest . 
at first , since the iceberg tears a series of little gashes in the hull , not some big gaping hole , the passengers view the hit as more of curiosity than anything else . 
what a lark . 
we've struck an iceberg . 
now let's get back to our brandy and cigars . 
the ship's musicians play like troopers through it all , even after the panic sets in . 
after all , they see it as their duty to calm the passengers . 
when the musicians are about to die , they politely thank each other for the pleasure of being able to play together , and they mean it . 
their civility borders on insanity , but it is touching nevertheless . 
the story is so rich that my description has merely touched the surface . 
there are more than enough characters to love and to hate , and all of the casting is dead-on . 
special effects work best when their presence becomes almost undetectable . 
in titanic , for which he created a nine-tenths scale model of the entire ship , cameron strove for accuracy at all costs . 
the most dramatic moment in the film happens when the ship breaks in two , and the front section becomes vertical in the water . 
people are flung like ants either into the water to be shortly frozen to death or into other parts of the ship to be crushed immediately . 
besides being romantic and dramatic , the script includes liberal doses of humor . 
from the many deliciously subtle verbal put-downs to the physical comedy , as when jack teaches rose to spit like a man , the show elicits laughter in addition to perhaps a few tears . 
 " it's good-bye for a little while , " a less than confident father tells his little girl since it was indeed women and children first . 
 " this boat's for mommies and children . 
there'll be a boat in a little while for daddies . " 
basically there was a design decision to have fewer than half of the necessary life boats -- it made the decks look too crowded otherwise . 
perhaps the sinking is best summarized by one of the guggenheim's on-board the ship . 
in the dining room with the lifeboats gone and the ship certain to sink , he is offered a life jacket by one of the crew . 
 " no thanks , " the elegantly attired guggenheim replies . 
 " we're dressed in our best and would prefer to go down like gentlemen . 
but we would like a brandy . " 
titanic runs 3 : 14 . 
it is rated pg-13 for tastefully and delicately presented sex and nudity and would be fine for kids twelve and up . 
the sweet hereafter could serve as a textbook example of the difference between television movies and " real " movies . 
consider for a moment what a television producer would do with a book that features a fatal school bus accident and a lawyer out to sign up the bereaved -- lots of hot sensationalism interrupted with breaks to sell beer and toothpaste . 
top-flight writer and director atom egoyan delivers instead a film with tremendous power whose most notable trait is its touching subtlety . 
based on a respected book of the same name by author russell banks , the movie represents a rethinking of the story's structure , not merely a literal adaptation of the novel . 
told in linear form by four narrators in the book , egoyan's version happens instead in overlapping time sequences and without a narrator . 
the author is even on record as applauding egoyan's changes . 
in the press notes the book's author describes the story as " a parable of lost children . " 
he says it asks what a town does in the absence of its children . 
picking up on this , egoyan has a flashback in which a sitter , nicole burnell , played with grace by sarah polley , reads parts of " the pied piper " from an old , illustrated book to her two charges . 
periodically throughout the picture , nicole's readings are heard in voice-over . 
you have never heard this moving poem read so sweetly or in such an appropriate moment . 
they and the rest of the town's children come into harm's way -- some live and others are seriously injured . 
and the entire small canadian town where the accident occurs is never the same again . 
although the physical damage is inflicted mainly on the children , the adults bear the emotional scars of the loss . 
ian holm , in arguably the best performance of his distinguished career , plays mitchell stephens , an intense man of quiet misery . 
mitchell is the outsider in the story set in a small , snow-encrusted community in the british columbian wilderness . 
his mission there is a singular one , to sign up the parents so that he can sue someone , anyone , on their behalf . 
if this seems crass , well it is , but mitchell approaches his job with the dedication of a religious zealot . 
the story unfolds slowly and always believably . 
each little aspect has its own fascination . 
as mitchell interviews wendell and rita walker , played with quiet realism by maury chaykin and alberta watson , he has a simple task . 
he wants them to suggest some model couple in the village who has a lost a child so that he can use that couple to form the basis of the suit . 
wendell ticks off one town member after another and then , as one can in a small town , enumerates each person's numerous faults . 
although the town is no peyton place , people there do have their foibles . 
one of the best parents in the town appears to be billy ansell ( bruce greenwood ) , who rides his pickup behind the school bus everyday just so he can wave good-bye to his kids . 
well , single parent billy's fault is that he has regularly scheduled trysts with the married rita . 
his confessions to rita about his feelings of loss are one of the many heartfelt outpourings in the story . 
the accident itself , a simple one of a bus hitting a patch of ice , isn't shown until the middle of the picture , but , nevertheless , the mystery about it builds throughout the film . 
although the picture is no detective story , finding out exactly what happened is a subtheme in a movie that is primarily a character study of a town gripped by tragedy . 
as the injured bus driver , gabrielle rose , dolores driscoll plays the role of a dedicated individual who loves kids with a passion and for whom the tragedy takes on special meaning . 
to round out the story , mitchell has his own private tragedy to bear . 
his daughter zoe ( caerthan banks ) is a drug addict who has bounced in and out of one half-way house and recovery center after another . 
fond of calling her dad on his cell phone so she can ask for money or help , she interrupts him at many emotionally charged moments as he attempts to sign up the townsfolk . 
 ( " i can help you , " mitchell tries to reassure billy . 
 " not unless you can raise the dead , " billy snaps back . 
mitchell's pitch is never an easy one and worrying about zoe only makes it harder . ) 
mychael danna's haunting music sets the stage for tragedy . 
the cinematography by paul sarossy is sweeping in its outdoor grandeur , but it is in the warm , shadowy , intimate moments indoors where it works best . 
the show , which is ripe for emotional manipulation , never plays with its audience . 
still , when the house lights go up , you may feel as i did . 
i could barely breathe ; i was so overcome by the sum total of what i had witnessed . 
more than anything , the film is like a master painting . 
each cinematic brush stroke is carefully laid down by egoyan with the beauty building with each dollop of paint . 
with the final color in place , the masterpiece is complete , and the ending credits roll . 
the sweet hereafter runs 1 : 50 . 
it is rated r for mature themes , sexuality and some profanity and would be fine teenagers . 
 ( warning to those who have not seen seven : this review contains some spoiler information . ) 
seven is a powerful , fully-realized film on the level of the silence of the lambs . 
it is a disturbing film that accomplishes its biggest of goals--it occupies the viewers mind long after the closing credits have rolled . 
while this film is not for the squeamish , there is no denying that seven demands attention , for it is a film that transcends its genre in both style and substance . 
for starters , classifying seven as a " thriller " would not be an altogether complete classification of this film . 
while i was genuinely thrilled throughout , i would rather call seven an " intense drama , " because that is what it delivers--meaningful scenes with a relentlessness that does not readily let up . 
part of director david finchers accomplishment is in style . 
he seems to have a knack for knowing exactly how the average person fears something as " simple " as a corpse . 
and visually , fincher shows us the remains of murder victims in all-too-realistic and graphic terms ( courtesy of rob bottin's always-grisly special effects ) . 
throw in the appropriate but not-to-be-underestimated effects of lighting and a foreboding score and the result is a technical masterpiece of the murder scene . 
these scenes alone are quite impressive ; as fascinating as they are harrowing . 
yet , seven is more than just a technical accomplishment . 
in addition to style , fincher supplies substance . 
seven has compelling characters that it wants us to know and understand , and fincher ties them all together in a completely pessimistic view of society . 
detective william somerset ( morgan freeman ) is a man who has nearly given up on the world . 
its easy to see why . 
the world doesn't make sense . 
 ( somerset drives this point home with a rather ghastly story of a robbery victim who was attacked just blocks from the police precinct . 
after knocked down and robbed of his wallet , the attacker stabbed the helpless man in both eyes . ) 
why should somerset believe that by following this murder investigation and " picking up the pieces " he will be able to catch the killer ? 
somersets new partner , david mills ( brad pitt ) has not given up on the world , perhaps because he is still young ( and perhaps by having this optimism he's naive in this films portrayal of the world ) . 
he completely disagrees with somersets abandonment of hope . 
however , david's wife ( gwyneth paltrow ) has so much fear of her urban surroundings , she isn't even sure if she wants to * tell * her husband about her recent pregnancy , let alone carry it until birth and attempt to raise it in this environment . 
these three characters are all performed with skill and authenticity that makes them feel like real people and not the typical hollywood characters a lesser film might have offered . 
and in addition to making clear how each of these characters sees the world , fincher gives us support for * why * they feel the way they do . 
but if there's one character that underlines the message seven is trying to convey , it has to be the killer , john doe ( kevin spacey ) . 
seven's payoff lies in its ability to allow us to see how the killer views the world and what drives him to do what he does . 
one important thing to remember about doe is how easy it is to simply dismiss him as a " psycho , " with no motives behind his slayings . 
this is exactly the mistake mills makes . 
in the extremely intense and superbly performed closing scenes , were allowed to see that doe is , in his mind , merely a product of society . 
he's a killer who kills those who are bringing society down . 
in his mind he didn't kill " innocent " people , and , perhaps , they were not completely innocent ( but , then again , who is ? ) . 
hes absolutely infuriated that mills believes that the murder victims were innocent . 
really , seven doesn't just comment on the superficial obviousness of how screwed-up john doe is . 
seven makes larger statements about how screwed-up society is , hinting that society's degradation is simply conducive of creating more john does . 
besides the stylistic and larger-issue arguments for seeing this film , i recommend seven because it is , after all , also a very slick and well-made thriller . 
it features exciting plot developments , commanding performances , lots of suspense , and a conclusion that is chilling , riveting , and quite unfair . 
but then again , its a cruel world . 
modern audiences are more likely to be familiar with les misirables from the pop-broadway musical rather than victor hugo's original tome . 
adapted several times for the cinema , this latest effort does a superb job of translating the characters , story , and heart of the novel to the screen . 
liam neeson stars as jean valjean . 
as a young man , valjean stole some bread to satisfy his hunger . . . and he was sentenced to 19 years of hard labor for his crimes . 
prison hardened him , and on his release he seems doomed to a life of crime and squalor . 
however , an unexpected act of compassion changes his outlook on life , and he vows to become a better man . 
however , he runs up against one man who doesn't believe in reform . 
inspector javert ( geoffrey rush ) is an obsessive law abider . 
he has no tolerance for anyone who breaks the rules , even with benign intentions . 
he once served as a guard at the labor camp where valjean served , and after valjean breaks his parole , javert devotes himself to bringing him to justice . 
two women also get caught up in the struggle . 
fantine ( uma thurman ) is an unwed mother suffocating in an unforgiving society . 
her daughter , cosette ( mimi newman , and later , claire danes ) , is her life , yet she cannot afford to raise her . 
instead , cosette is sent to live with a cruel foster family which extorts money from fantine , and forces cosette into a life little better than a slave . 
director bille august manages to create a faithful adaptation of victor hugo's novel , which , though omitting some of the political undertones , remains true to the overall story and tone of the book . 
hopefully you won't , as some clueless members of the audience did , wonder where all the songs went . 
the movie manages to be completely engrossing without the andrew lloyd webber flourishes . 
the experience is bolstered by strong performances throughout , though neeson and rush deservedly take center stage with their core roles . 
neeson in particular deserves kudos for his portrayal of a man trying to do good , but continually haunted by his past . 
the supporting cast is also extraordinary . 
the only actor who dims in comparison is hans matheson , playing the revolutionary , marius . 
the film slightly loses its luster during his brief love affair , but it is transitory , and truly only distracting when contrasted with the rest of the film . 
the novel les misirables is , by any account , an epic , both in its scope and in its length . 
while it would be nearly impossible to cram everything from its pages into a two hour movie , this latest attempt does an admirable job at the translation . 
it , too , is an epic . . . and one worth seeing . 
i was born in 1970 , which makes me barely old enough to remember bell buttons , 8 tracks and disco . 
however , since i was 17 years old i've seen more than my share of adult films . 
i mention this only because i thinks its important to state up front that i'm not against pornogrpahy . 
i've seen enough of these films to know the range of content and quality available . 
director paul thomas anderson's boogie nights offers us a view into the world of porn during the period considered to be the golden age of adult cinema , the mid to late 70s . 
this was the period when x-rated movies were real movies , shot on film , shown in movie theaters and even reviewed by legitimate critics . 
this was an age when porn directors actually aspired to make innovative often educational films , films that attempted to tell a real story . 
one of the more fascinating aspects of this film is how , like in an any other billion dollar industry , the creative visionaries tend to be ignorant to the trends that will soon make them obsolete . 
in this case , the arrival of the now ubiquitous videocassette . 
burt reynold's manages to resuscitate his career portraying such an auteur , known as jack horner . 
horner's has a steady " family " of performers , some of whom live in his plush l . a . home . 
but in the world of porn , performers are a commodity - the fresher , the better . 
when horner scouts a fresh faced stud bussing tables at his favorite discotheque , he decides to add him to his stable . 
it is a pairing that leads to a meteoric rise and fall for a young man reaching his prime and an old man rapidly speeding past his . 
as directed by anderson , the camera moves through many of the scenes with an eerie omnipresence and an almost childlike curiosity to peer beyond the closed door . 
boogie nights provides a voyeuristic peep into the underbelly of l . a . 's hardcore film scene . 
but the peep show doesnut let us walk away when the titillation ends . 
the downside of voyeurism is sometimes we end up seeing things we wish we hadnut . 
by the film's final image , what we we once found titillating has now become a grim reminder of the vanity of fame and the high price of realizing your dreams . 
boogie nights is not about sex . 
it does not glorify porn or the lifestyles of the performers . 
in fact , the film isn't really about pornography at all . 
pornography is merely the setting to tell a compelling story about a lost and forgotten group of people who form their own sub-culture to find acceptance of who they are . 
the film goes to brilliant , often hilarious and sometimes harrowing lengths to show us that the people who choose to produce or perform in these films are generally not all that bright and lack the basic tools to function in the mainstream world . 
yet , like in the lauded tarantino films , these people still have their own moral code , their own concepts of integrity and their own needs to experess themselves creatively . 
the characters we meet are like a road map of dysfuntion . 
first stop , the den mother ( julianne moore ) in denial about her addiction to cocaine as she tries to retain custody of her son . 
second stop , the cuckold crewman ( william h . macy ) who keeps discovering his wife having sex with anyone and everyone ( the wife is played in hilarious cameos by real-life porn star nina hartley ) . 
but the driving force behind the plot is 17 year old eddie adams . 
eddie is blessed with a natural endowment so famous that people actually pay just to see it . 
with no real ambition of his own , he hooks up with jack horner to fullfill his destiny of fame . 
his alcoholic mother , clearly dissatisfied with her own lot , abuses him verbally and drives him out of the house . 
horner introduces him to amber waves ( moore ) who immediately adopts him , a nuclear family is born . 
the surrogate relationship that develops between amber waves and her " babies " provides some of the films most poignant scenes . 
clearly , she is not even fit to manage her own life , let alone nurture these lost children . 
but the need to love and be loved is so strong , they easily ignore the dangers of the less subtle addiction she introduces them to . 
even the viewer is somehow lulled into feeling like the love she offers is similar to being in a real family . 
then again , perhaps its not so different from real families at all . 
eddie adams , who later takes on the screen name " dirk diggler " , is skillfully acted by former pop-star , mark wahlberg . 
i say " former " pop star because with this performance wahlberg can officially quit his day job . 
this is bold and brave territory for such a young man . 
he pulls it off marvelously . 
wahlberg is a " big , bright star " with a big bright future . 
boogie nights plays very much in the spirit of the people versus larry flynt , without the first amendment preachiness . 
its intimate studies of character make it the superior film . 
wahlberg's surprising performance is on par with woody harrelson's . 
but in my opinion , boogie nights , is not the best film of the year . 
i got the feeling that itus 2 1/2 hour running time could have been cut by 15 or 20 minutes without losing any of its resonance . 
still , if the subject matter of this film intimidates you , thereus no doubt that once you start watching boogie nights you may still feel like its not your thing , but youull find yourself grooving to it anyway . . . ya 
know , kinda like disco . 
i remember making a pact , right after `patch adams' , to not be easily be suckered by movies dripping with sentimentality . 
but darn it , `music of the heart' is just layered with feel-good material and bright characterizations . 
it's hard to dislike a movie that uses such skill with it's manipulation . 
in addition , it's also a terrific family film . 
this is the true story of violin teacher roberta guaspari , who fought the school board to keep the musical program active in a handful of inner city harlem schools . 
it could also be described as `mrs . 
streep's opus' . 
yes , meryl streep brings her dramatic clout to the demanding role of guaspari , and that brings both good news and bad . 
out of the gate , possibly because of her distracting star power and the rushed writing , it is relatively difficult to identify with roberta's character and grasp her academic point-of-view . 
she is very strict with her students , but what insight does that create into the story ? 
slowly but surely , we begin to recognize the intentions of the character , and show admiration for the thoughtfulness and human feeling that streep has once again applied . 
one thoroughly interesting fact about `music of the heart' lies with the unlikely presence in the director's chair : horror veteran wes craven . 
after leaving an impression with the `scream' films and the original `nightmare on elm street' , craven has attempted a precarious cross-over to drama . 
at first , his inexperience with the genre is fairly obvious , but as the film progresses craven finds a surprisingly comfortable niche with directing this material . 
it doesn't carry the heart-warming courage of `mr . 
holland's opus' , but `music of the heart' is casually assured and filled with little morsels of dramatic truth . 
the tag team of streep and craven works better than you would anticipate . 
yes , oscar could come calling once again for meryl streep , but it's the solid ensemble cast that makes `music of the heart' work . 
angela bassett displays her usual forceful stamina as janet williams , the principal at an inner city school who initially doesn't hire roberta because of her lack of experience . 
blue-eyed adian quinn is endearing , as always , playing a new love interest . 
gloria estefan also delivers in the tiny role of a supportive second-grade teacher , and the three lead actresses together produce a flaming fireball of estrogenic force . 
it's like a schoolteacher's version of `thelma and louise' , in a restrained but effective manner . 
the movie tackles more issues than just guaspari's teaching of violin . 
there's some powerful moments between roberta and her two sons , who must cope when their father leaves them for another woman . 
in it's dramatic build-up , the movie manages to produce some authentic moments of feeling and warmth . 
it's a good movie for anyone to see , although missing out on the experience would not be a life-altering decision . 
it's commendable of wes craven to be attempting such a difficult cross-over , and also for achieving his intricate goal . 
watching this heartfelt chick flick about morals and musical instruments , who may ask yourself : this is the guy who directed `scream' ? 
of course , when the third installment of that series comes around in february 2000 ( with craven directing ) , you may find yourself wondering : this is the guy who directed `music of the heart' ? 
mission accomplished , wes . 
thankfully , there is no layer of artificial sentiment covering the film . 
in it's entirety , it's a wholesome and agreeable movie for the whole family , despite the periodic flaws that surface every once in awhile . 
the child actors are cute and perform up to par , even if some of their problems are clich ? d and predictable in the extreme . 
the mother who doesn't want her son to be learning `white man's music' , the unexpected casuality . . . 
basically everything is there . 
it doesn't strike the perfect chord , but `music of the heart' is highly convincing . 
the uplifting true story of roberta guaspari could have been told better , but `music of the heart' is still edifying enough to properly divulge her morals . 
vannesa kensington : `austin , do you smoke after sex ? ' austin powers : `i don't know baby , i've never looked ! ' 
and so begins our journey into the most anticipated sequel of the summer season . 
austin powers 2 , the sequel to the sleeper hit of 1997 , is filled to the brim with uproarious sight gags and lurid toilet jokes that will make you keel over with hilarity . 
the mind of mike myers is obviously a very bizarre place . 
myers returns as the swinging 60's spy and his arch-nemesis , the bald headed dr . evil , who is given much of the spotlight here . 
there's an early scene in which dr . evil and his son scott ( seth green ) appear on a jerry springer segment entitled `my dad is evil and wants to take over the world' , hosted by springer himself . 
most of these talk-show gags , spoofing everything from oprah to regis and kathie lee , are no longer as funny as they once were . 
happily , this is an exception , especially when a fight breaks out between dr . evil and the other guests . 
 ( sample dialogue- `come back here you mother #@%$^ ! ! 
you want a piece of me ? ' ) 
the audience was in stitches . 
there are many good things about this sequel . 
dr . evil is now assisted by mini-me ( verne troyer ) , a pint-sized clone who is the result of an experiment gone awry . 
mini-me is the most perfect new character that any fan could ask for , and troyer does a terrific job of mimicking everything that his big brother does , pinkie and all . 
mindy sterling returns as frau farbissina , evil's loud-mouth assassin sidekick , and here we are treated to a brief romantic liaison between the two in an underground bedroom chamber . 
this works surprisingly well . 
afterward , there's even a meeting at the coffee machine , where their awkwardness is expressed in a scene you would expect in any normal office environment . 
oh , yes . . . 
the plot . 
after a short honeymoon with vanessa kensington ( elizabeth hurley ) that goes disastrously wrong , powers is back on the case to thwart the diabolical plans of dr . evil . 
in the original , the subject of the day was cryogenic freezing that enabled the characters to hop between two time periods . 
here , it's time travel . 
dr . evil has this crazy plan to steal austin's mojo ( the source of his sexual powers ) , so he jumps through a time portal back into 1969 when powers is still is his freezing chamber . 
there , he employs a grotesque 600-pound scottish assassin named fat bastard ( also myers ) to commandeer the mojo , so that our future hero is left completely shagless . 
meanwhile , austin is informed of evil's wrong-doing by basil exposition ( michael york ) , and is supplied with his very own time-traveling device in the form of a volkswagen beetle . 
once back in 1969 , powers meets a foxy cia operative named felicity shagwell ( heather graham ) , and learns of dr . evil's plans to destroy washington dc with a lazer on the moon . 
in one of the many uproarious jabs at star wars , evil calls the moon base a `death star' . 
if there ever was a movie that knew from the start it was a complete joke , it's austin powers : the spy who shagged me . 
ap2 has many hilarious moments , much more so , than the original austin powers . 
but what it doesn't have is the confident support system that the first boasted , and the jokes are now more scattershot and hit-and-miss . 
while myers has a knack for delivering clever , inspired gags , he sometimes doesn't know when to call it quits . 
the hilarious scene in the original involving mustafa ( will ferrell ) and his refusal to die is played out here in a disappointing and tired manner . 
robert wagner , as dr . evil's #2 man , has only one scene early on in the film , where he lacks all the focus of the character . 
one nice surprise is rob lowe , as the young #2 , who patterns wagner's voice and movements right down to a tee . 
there are more recycled jokes from the predecessor , including kristen johnston as ivana humpalot ( an unfunny rendition of alotta fagina ) . 
but myers has clearly put so much dedication into this project , and many bits are side-splittingly funny . 
don't miss an extended visual gag in a tent , where the shadows leave much to the imagination . . . . 
of the new characters , graham doesn't leave much of an impression . 
her performance is merely okay , and she lacks the gung-ho enthusiasm that made elizabeth hurley so enjoyable before her . 
and as for fat bastard . . . 
well , he provides one or two hilarious moments , but all of the obesity jokes and bathroom talk go too far . 
but my most severe complaint : mr . bigglesworth was only in one scene ! ! 
but , with gritted teeth , i managed to get over that . 
this sequel will not leave fans disappointed ; it's more often than not a laugh riot . 
and , i look optimistically to the future , where i foresee more installments to the austin powers collection . 
if myers can up the quota of fresh ideas , we should be in store for much more . 
 ( c ) 1999 , jamey hughton . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
jamey hughton ( 15 ) has written a weekly column in the starphoenix , saskatoon , sk since november , 1997 . 
he was a 1999 writing finalist in the canadian ytv achievement awards . 
the premise of the new teen-targeted horror film `final destination' causes a recollection of a memorable `simpsons' halloween episode . 
after attempting to repair a malfunctioning toaster , lovably ignorant patriarch homer realizes he has created a portable time-machine . 
after a trek into the cretaceous period , homer observes that any minor alteration made there will erupt into a starling chain of events and seriously modify the present world . 
again and again , homer toys with the master plan and pays dearly for it . 
the characters of `final destination' have also tampered with the blueprint schematics of their existence - their `design' . 
someone is after them with the strict intent of correcting the mistake . 
that someone is death . 
you see , alex browning ( devon sawa ) and six others have cheated the grim reaper . . . . 
but the dude has got some tricks up his sleeve . 
for a high school excursion , alex's french class is traveling to paris by airline transport . 
alex , tense and neurotic , has a shocking premonition after boarding : he sees the plane , and every passenger on it , spontaneously explode in mid-air . 
in a panic of sheer lunacy , alex charges his way through the aisle and demands removal from the aircraft . 
after a handful of others ( including one teacher ) follow and are denied admittance back onto the plane , the unwitting ? survivors' watch in horror as the plane actually explodes in the drizzling night sky . 
the loony vision alex experiences does actually materialize . 
but death won't be cheated so easily , and one by one , the survivors of flight 180 are offed in mysteriously gruesome circumstances . 
the grisly murder count baffles the local officials and fbi . 
before i delve into the meat of the review , i'd just like to confer . . . . 
is that one helluva premise , or what ? 
`final destination' , creepy beyond rational comprehension , probably reads more like an unsettling `x-files' episode than `the simpsons' - therefore , the surprise is minimal when you discover the mutual creators behind both are glen morgan and james wong . 
on familiar turf , the task of establishing footing is not difficult for morgan and wong , and the opening 20 minutes of `final destination' reflects that . 
unlike most thrillers , the set-up is crisp and cool . 
you just deeply , sincerely hope that the momentum won't unspool , leaving us with a second-string effort with nothing but cheap , derivative shocks . 
young viewers have a palpable reason to expect this kind of formula deterioration , what with `i know what you did last summer' and sequel , `idle hands' and -- a movie with a nifty premise that just plunged like an anvil -- `urban legend' . 
after the set-up , when i remained slouched apprehensively in my chair , i started to really have fun with `final destination' . 
low and behold , a teen thriller that is actually unsettling , actually suspenseful and -- yes -- actually intelligent . 
some splotty logic and a heap of characteristic genre flaws aside , this film is among the most refreshing and all-out enjoyable horror movies to submerge since the cutting-edge `scream' in 1996 . 
`final destination' stimulates the nerves and offers a exhilarating retaliation strike against all the blood-spattered slasher crap we've endured throughout the past few years . 
not that the characters are that good . 
sawa is game as alex , a connect-the-dots personality that we never fully comprehend . 
in addition , the survivors are endearing geek tod ( chad e . donella ) , jocky control-freak carter ( kerr smith of `dawson's creek' ) , carter's ditzy girlfriend terry ( amanda detmer ) , the none-too-subtly named billy hitchcock ( seann william scott , supplier of lukewarm comic relief ) and a lone teacher - the emotionally delicate ms . lewton ( kristin cloke ) . 
aside from alex , the primary center of interest is intended to be ali larter ( `varsity blues' ) , playing an abstract character named clear rivers ( what were her parents thinking ? ! ? ) . 
the personality of clear is written with such a vague , nebulous definition that she resembles a walking flash-card saying `hello , i am the offbeat character designed to identify with the main character's plight ! ' 
toss a few stereotypical fbi agents ( daniel roebuck and roger guenveur smith ) and a . . . . ummm . . . 
`spiritual' mortician ( former `candyman' tony todd ) into the mix , and you have what could be another generic teenage frightfest with slicing , dicing and assorted disembowelments . 
not so . 
`final destination' has no slicing and dicing , or at least none dealt by a human killer , and the thought of death itself as the unseen stalker is unique and frightening . 
the extra dimension of disconcerting irony rejuvenates the decaying ? murderer-on-the-loose' concept , with assistance from a shrewd , intelligently paced screenplay by morgan , wong and jeffrey reddick . 
the plot twists are fun and clever without toppling into utter absurdity ( listen up , `reindeer games' ) . 
but i suppose the most satisfying aspect of `final destination' is the murder scenes . 
creative , resourceful and breathlessly inventive , the death sequences involve an unlikely string of events leading to a character's demise . 
what will trigger the accident ? 
will it be the john denver record , just put on to play `rocky mountain high' ? 
 ( yeah , sick humor ) . 
will it be the leaking toilet ? 
the falling fishing reel in the corner ? 
the murders are startling and largely unforeseen , including one surprise incident that made the audience jump out of their seats and giggle nervously for roughly a minute afterward . 
a sense of giddy unpredictability is added with this inventive approach . 
it gets sorta tasteless and cheap sometimes , but who cares ? 
it's fun . 
in that simple regard , `final destination' is my cup of tea . 
this stylishly executed thriller , although tagged with laughable circumstances and the occasional snippet of lame dialogue , is an immensely entertaining jaunt to the dark side . 
after the show , it will also have an frightening impact on you . 
when will your ? design' expire ? 
is death waiting around the corner ? 
the `final' effect is a major case of the heebie-jeebies . 
it is easy to see why the late stanley kubrick believed steven spielberg would be the perfect director for his a . i . 
artificial intelligence , just as it is understandable why spielberg was attracted to the material . 
for here we have another lost boy trying to find his way home , an outcast seeking family , themes very familiar from most of spielberg's body of work from sugarland express to close encounters of the third kind to e . t . 
to empire of the sun to hook to saving private ryan , naming just a few examples . 
a . i . is set in an undefined near future in which giant technological advances have led to the creation of robots who serve every purpose from housekeeping to fulfilling sexual fantasies . 
it is an era when robots are treated merely as sophisticated appliances . 
the last great leap in robotic evolution is the addition of emotions , and with the number of births limited by the government , many couples are yearning for children . 
and professor hobby ( william hurt ) has the solution . 
a robotic boy named david ( haley joel osment ) , who is programmed to love . 
as a test , david is placed with henry swinton ( sam robards ) and his wife , monica ( frances o'connor ) . 
their natural-born son has been cryogenically frozen until a cure can be found for his illness . 
the first third of a . i . 
deals with david's life with the swintons and how that is changed by the recovery and return of their son , martin . 
circumstances force david to be cut off from the swintons . 
he is abandoned and alone . 
david , highly influenced by the fairy tale , pinocchio , feels that if he becomes a real boy he can rekindle monica's love for him . 
the film's second act follows david's search for the blue fairy , whom he believes will be able to fulfill his wish . 
during these adventures he meets and is helped by gigolo joe ( jude law ) , a robot who specializes in sex . 
spielberg is at his top form in this sequence , offering a brutal " flesh fair " where robots are destroyed via sadistic methods for the amusement of paying customers . 
here , is where kubrick's influence is strongly felt , as the movie explores the fear and distrust humans have for robots . 
the savagery conjures up images from the late director's a clockwork orange . 
at about two hours and 30 minutes , the film begins to falter during the last 20 minutes , a sequence that seems most spielbergian with images that appear to be borrowed from close encounters . 
it is all very anti-climatic and jarring . 
these scenes seem almost superfluous , as if from a different film . 
a . i . is a dark fairy tale that deserves its pg-13 rating . 
it is a story combining hope and intolerance , sacrifice and bigotry , and while it does not coalesce perfectly , the movie does offer some disturbing images . 
but a . i . 
is really a showcase for the acting talents of the amazing young osment . 
if ever an actor deserved an academy award nomination , it is this lad , who brings a sense of joy and wonder to the role of david , a being created for the express purpose of loving . 
he shines when with monica , beaming with love , as eager as a puppy to please . 
after being left in the woods , he is confused , lost , hurt , focusing on one objective : to become a real boy and find his way home so he can redeem himself in his mother's eyes . 
law is pleasant as the care-free robot who really doesn't understand david's quest , but is nonetheless happy to help him on his journey . 
probably the toughest role is o'connor's monica . 
playing an emotional fragile woman who sees david as a substitute for her lost martin , she grows conflicted after her boy returns and she begins to perceive david not as a second chance , but as a threat to her family . 
she gives her character enough emotional chaos that you cannot fault her for her course of action . 
many of a . i . 's futuristic sets are breathtaking , especially a mostly submerged new york , lost to the world by the melting of the polar ice caps . 
a . i . is a flawed film , and you cannot get through the entire feature without pondering - even subconsciously - how it would have turned out with kubrick instead of spielberg behind the camera . 
would it have been darker ? 
more cynical ? 
we will never know . 
we can only judge what is before us on the screen , a collaboration of two cinematic giants . 
a . i . 
is a most interesting and thought-provoking examination of a future that is quickly gaining on us . 
here's a word analogy : amistad is to the lost world as schindler's list is to jurassic park . 
in 1993 , after steven spielberg made the monster dino hit , many critics described schindler's list as the director's " penance " ( as if there was a need for him to apologize for making a crowd-pleasing blockbuster ) . 
now , after a three-year layoff , spielberg is back with a vengeance . 
once again , his summer release was special effects-loaded action/adventure flick with dinosaurs munching on human appetizers . 
now , following his 1993 pattern , he has fashioned another serious , inspirational christmas release about the nature of humanity . 
that film is amistad . 
although not as masterful as schindler's list , amistad is nevertheless a gripping motion picture . 
thematically rich , impeccably crafted , and intellectually stimulating , the only area where this movie falls a little short is in its emotional impact . 
watching schindler's list was a powerful , almost spiritual , experience . 
spielberg pulled us into the narrative , absorbed us in the drama , then finally let us go , exhausted and shattered , three-plus hours later . 
aspects of the movie have stayed with me ever since . 
amistad , while a fine example of film making , is not as transcendent . 
the incident of the ship la amistad is not found in any history books , but , considering who writes the texts , that's not a surprise . 
however , the event is a part of the american social and legal fabric , and , while amistad does not adhere rigorously to the actual account , most of the basic facts are in order . 
several , mostly minor changes have been made to enhance the film's dramatic force . 
on the whole , while amistad may not be faithful to all of the details of the situation , it is true to the spirit and meaning of what transpired . 
one stormy night during the summer of 1839 , the 53 men imprisoned on the spanish slave ship la amistad escape . 
led by the lion-hearted cinque ( djimon hounsou ) , they take control of the vessel , killing most of the crew . 
adrift somewhere off the coast of cuba and uncertain how to make their way back to africa , they rely on the two surviving spaniards to navigate the eastward journey . 
they are tricked , however , and the la amistad , which makes its way northward off the united states' eastern coastline , is eventually captured by an american naval ship near connecticut . 
the kidnapped africans are shackled and thrown into prison , charged with murder and piracy . 
the first men to come to the africans' defense are abolitionists theodore joadson ( morgan freeman ) and lewis tappan ( stellan skarsgard ) . 
they are soon joined by roger baldwin ( matthew mcconaughey ) , a property attorney of little repute . 
aided by advice from former president john quincy adams ( anthony hopkins ) , baldwin proves a more persuasive orator than anyone gave him credit for , and his central argument -- that the prisoners were illegally kidnapped free men , not property -- convinces the judge . 
but powerful forces have aligned against baldwin's cause . 
current president martin van buren ( nigel hawthorne ) , eager to please southern voters and 11-year old queen isabella of spain ( anna paquin ) , begins pulling strings behind-the-scenes to ensure that none of the africans goes free . 
at its heart , amistad is a tale of human courage . 
cinque is a heroic figure whose spirit remains unbreakable regardless of the pain and indignity he is subjected to . 
he is a free man , not a slave , and , while he recognizes that he may die as a result of his struggle , he will not give it up . 
effectively portrayed by newcomer djimon hounsou , whose passion and screen presence arrest our attention , cinque is the key to viewers seeing the amistad africans as more than symbols in a battle of ideologies . 
they are individuals , and our ability to make that distinction is crucial to the movie's success . 
to amplify this point , spielberg presents many scenes from the africans' point-of-view , detailing their occasionally-humorous observations about some of the white man's seemingly-strange " rituals " . 
the larger struggle is , of course , one of defining humanity . 
as the nazis felt justified in slaughtering jews because they viewed their victims as " sub-human , " so the pro-slavery forces of amistad use a similar defense . 
the abolitionists regard the africans as men , but the slavers and their supporters see them as animals or property . 
in a sense , the morality of slavery is on trial here with the specter of civil war , which would break out less than three decades later , looming over everything . 
amistad's presentation of the legal and political intricacies surrounding the trial are fascinating , making this movie one of the most engrossing courtroom dramas in recent history . 
four claimants come forward against the africans : the state , which wants them tried for murder ; the queen of spain , who wants them handed over to her under the provision of an american/spanish treaty ; two american naval officers , who claim the right of high seas salvage ; and the two surviving spaniards from la amistad , who demand that their property be returned to them . 
baldwin must counter all of these claims , while facing a challenge to his own preconceived notions as the result of a relationship he develops with cinque . 
even though attorney and client are divided by a language barrier , they gradually learn to communicate . 
aside from cinque , who is a fully-realized individual , characterization is spotty , but the acting is top-notch . 
matthew mcconaughey successfully overcomes his " pretty boy " image to become baldwin , but the lawyer is never particularly well-defined outside of his role in the la amistad case . 
likewise , while morgan freeman and stellan skarsgard are effective as joadson and tappan , they are never anything more than " abolitionists . " 
nigel hawthorne , who played the title character in the madness of king george , presents martin van buren as a spineless sycophant to whom justice means far less than winning an election . 
finally , there's anthony hopkins , whose towering portrayal of john quincy adams is as compelling as anything the great actor has recently done . 
hopkins , who can convincingly play such diverse figures as a serial killer , an emotionally-crippled english butler , and richard nixon , makes us believe that he is adams . 
his ten-minute speech about freedom and human values is unforgettable . 
one point of difference worth noting between amistad and schindler's list is this film's lack of a well-defined human villain . 
schindler's list had ralph fiennes' superbly-realized amon goeth , who was not only a three-dimensional character , but a personification of all that the nazis stood for . 
there is no such figure in amistad . 
the villain is slavery , but an ideology , no matter how evil , is rarely the best adversary . 
it is to spielberg's credit that he has fashioned such a compelling motion picture without a prominent antagonist . 
amistad's trek to the screen , which encountered some choppy waters ( author barbara chase-riboud has cried plagiarism , a charge denied by the film makers ) , comes in the midst of an upsurge of interest in the incident . 
an opera of the same name opened in chicago on november 29 , 1997 . 
numerous books about the subject are showing up on bookstore shelves . 
it remains to be seen how much longevity the amistad phenomena has , but one thing is certain -- with spielberg's rousing , substantive film leading the way , the spotlight has now illuminated this chapter of american history . 
you know you're in for a truly different cinematic experience the moment you realize steve buscemi has been cast as the movie in question's most normal character . 
such is the case with " the big lebowski , " joel and ethan coen's first venture since their " fargo " nabbed nationwide acclaim and a mantlepiece of academy award nods . 
there's no need to fear that the coens suffered creative burnout with that accomplishment , because " lebowski " is an effort that makes words like " strange " and " unusual " seem like an understatement . 
thanks in part to delicious characterization and an all-encompassing sense of humor , the film is a smashing success . 
the central oddball here is the dude ( jeff bridges ) , an unemployed cad whose ambitions appear to be zilch beyond smoking pot , drinking beer and going bowling ( are you college students already rooting for him , or what ? ) . 
one night , a pair of thugs break into his house and pee on his carpet , a threatening act that's supposed to be carried out against a famous pasadena millionaire ( david huddleston ) who shares his birth name -- jeff lebowski -- with the dude . 
once the dude realizes this coincidence , he visits the big lebowski in hopes to claim reparations for his soiled rug , and is back to his normal life with alley pals walter ( john goodman ) , a hotheaded vietnam vet , and donny ( buscemi ) , a mild-mannered surfer , before too long . 
soon , though , lebowski's trampy trophy wife bunny ( tara reid ) is kidnaped and held for a hefty ransom , and he turns to the dude for help . 
it seems bunny's troubles are related to a line of work she's kept secret from her husband -- she's actually an adult film star and is very in debt with a shady producer named jackie treehorn . 
the dude , now on lebowski's payroll , accepts the offer and agrees to handle the money drop ; walter tags along and insists that the dude keep the cash for himself . 
chaos obviously ensues , and the dude eventually finds himself in hot water with cops , crooks and lebowski's ultra-eccentric artist daughter maude ( julianne moore ) . 
 " the big lebowski " deserves to win the coens the same amount of acclaim that " fargo " did ; while that 1996 black comedy was certainly a better film , " lebowski " is at least as breathtakingly imaginative . 
the movie boasts a mile-high absurdity level that sometimes threatens to topple over , but thankfully never does . 
the coens ( joel directed , ethan produced and both wrote ) keep you in stitches as they unravel their exceedingly loopy tale , and must be commended for juggling a number of people and subplots one would expect to find in a robert altman flick . 
whether we're watching bridges fend off a marmet in his bathtub or moore don viking duds and dance in a busby berkeley-esque dream sequence , " the big lebowski " is immensely lively . 
there are those who will dislike this film , but not because it's boring . 
the cast has a great deal of fun with the bounteous material they're given . 
bridges exudes a likeable , surprisingly sweet presence ; his dude sure isn't the cleanest guy around , but you'd still follow him to another movie . 
goodman merits 1998's first oscar consideration , as walter's manic temper is one of " the big lebowski " 's many highlights ; the same goes for moore , whose throaty , delectable performance as maude is a hilarious hoot . 
john turturro may very well steal the movie with his two scenes as a colorful bowler from a rival faction . 
sam elliott's rambling narration gets the film off to a solid start . 
and some will recognize peter stormare -- " fargo " 's silent heavy -- as carl hungus , a porn star who's really a samurai sword-wielding german nihilist and has-been pop star . 
only in its final third does the movie falter , with a couple of loose plot threads and some cast members who quickly disappear and never emerge for a curtain call . 
these flaws are forgivable , though -- the coens have crafted a tale so rich with personality that it's hard to look at the final product with anything but a big grin on your face . 
without a doubt , " the big lebowski " is the best film so far this year . 
sure , we're only three months in and the competition ( " deep rising , " " desperate measures , " " the wedding singer , " etc . ) has been pretty bland , but it's still the gospel truth . 
maybe during next awards season , " lebowski " won't be a far cry from " fargo . " 
a couple of months ago , when i first downloaded the face/off trailer from the net , my initial reaction was a fourteen carrot gold 'yawn' . 
followed swiftly by a press of my computers delete key , not wanting to waste six or seven megabytes of precious space on this piss-poor trailer . 
then i started reading the first wave of reviews from the u . s . . . . . unique . . . excellent . . . . must-see . 
well , i thought still skeptical , i suppose i might as well go see it when it gets here . 
'here' , of course , was still three months away . 
i'll admit , when i trotted off to see this film , the only john woo movie i had seen before was the fairly enjoyable but highly forgetable broken arrow . 
i'd heard good things about his previous work with movies like hard boiled , but his films were definitely not on my must-see list . 
that , let me tell you , has changed completely . 
i knew this fact only five minutes into the film , after the brilliantly shot and acted opening sequence where sean archer loses his son blew me off my feet . 
the acting throughout the film is staggeringly good for an action flick . 
seriously . 
i've never been a big john travolta fan , but he , like cage , perfectly suited his role in the movie . . . . . sorry , 
make that 'roles' in the movie . 
even travolta's great performance , however , paled in comparison to cage's character portrayals . 
my favourite cage scene was definitely when he was crashed out in compardre dietrich hassler's hideout . 
half drugged out of his mind , he sits there reclining back in a chair talking about his son's death from castor's perspective - " doesn't it just break your heart . " he mutters coldly . 
now don't go thinking from the previous comments about brilliant acting that this is a drama focused movie - it's not . 
that's what really makes this movie unique . 
it's an action movie with brilliantly portrayed characters . . . . . not a common mix at all . 
suspension of disbelief is paramount in this movie though . . . . . that's 
the only way to overlook the fact that travolta and cage fire around 5671 rounds at each other . . . . and 
never hit . 
several action scenes are just so well choreographed that they just make wish that you could press 'rewind' and watch it over again . 
the part where archer and troy have a stand off on either side of a double-sided mirror is just plain brilliant . 
whilst cage's and travolta's performances would be enough alone to sustain most movies , the lesser characters are just as intriguing . 
joan allen , who usually sticks to the straight drama movies , plays her part perfectly as archer's long suffering wife . 
i like the fact that her character didn't end up toting a gun at the end of the movie . . . it 
would have wrecked her potrayal . 
gina gershon was surprising to say the least as castor troy's mistreated girlfriend . . . . . make that * one of * castor troy's mistreated girlfriends . 
other movies would have used her character as just window dressing . . . a 
sex object , but instead her character is very strong and independent . 
dominique swain , who plays archer's daughter , also does a nice job , though her character is not as explored as much as allen's or gershon's . 
faults ? well . . . there were some i have to say . 
first , the movie's ending , whilst being very good overall , was a bit too drawn out for it's own good . 
after the two combatants begin duelling again after the final boat crash you can't help but think - " geez , are you guys nuclear powered or what ? " . 
there were certain bits that weren't handled properly , like where archer appears safe and sound on solid ground after jumping off the converted oil platform/prison - more explanation here would have been nice . 
overall , this movie was not perfect . 
but i thought it was about as close as an action movie has ever came to perfect . 
many critics have claimed that this movie will change the way action movies are made . . . . . i 
certainly hope so . 
those print and television ads trumpeting that " 'grease' is still the word " are right on the money . 
to celebrate its 20th anniversary , this quintessential movie musical is getting the royal treatment reserved for classics like " star wars " -- a well-deserved , red-carpet rerelease . 
that's fantastic , especially when considering of all the classic characters and scenes the film has served up -- who can forget aspiring beautician frenchie ( didi conn ) being serenaded by her tell-it-like-it-is guardian angel ( frankie avalon ) ? 
or the hard-nosed principal ( eve arden ) reminding the student body to " be an athletic supporter " by rooting for the home team ? 
or national bandstand emcee vince fontaine ( edd byrnes ) flirting with marty ( a pre- " empty nest " dinah manhoff ) ? 
and these are all probably considered minor moments . . . 
a very skinny john travolta and a very young olivia newton-john have the respective leads of danny zuko and sandy olsson , and their pairing still ranks as one of screendom's most effervescently charming . 
for those eight of you who aren't familiar with the story , here's a brief recap : greaser bad boy danny and aussie good girl sandy are reunited for their 1959 senior year at rydell high after a brief fling during the summer ; both thought she was going to return to her native continent before school started , but both were wrong . 
sandy tries to rekindle their relationship , but danny's too cool a cat to fall for her wholesome appeal in front of his t-bird buddies ( including jeff conaway ) . 
so sandy hooks up with a gang herself -- the pink ladies , headed by sassy , sexy rizzo ( stockard channing , just superb as an independent woman well ahead of her time ) -- and danny , who still really feels love for her , attempts a compromise of ideals in order to win her back . 
the drag race finale is yet something of a drag , and i never have thought much of " greased lightening , " the film's big " guy " number ( that choreography -- ack ! ) , but " grease " 's flaws amount too few to carp . 
the movie's first showpiece is " summer nights , " where danny and sandy separately recount wildly different versions of their fun-in-the-sun romance . 
not only is " nights " tremendously catchy , but it's also a smart look at how men and women see the same events with varying eyes . 
there has yet to be a live-action musical sequence that rivals the one-two punch of " you're the one that i want " and " we go together , " " grease " 's euphoric cappers . 
all this and some of the most pleasing moments come from the smaller , quieter moments ; the oscar-nominated " hopelessly devoted to you " is a lovely showcase for newton-john , and channing's lamenting ballad " there are worse things i could do " is one of " grease " 's most unjustly overlooked tunes . 
the soundtrack is remastered ( though travolta still hits that awful high note at the end of " nights " ) and the restored widescreen allows us to see previously pan-and-scanned-out choreography , but nothing else has changed -- no computer-generated backgrounds , no outtakes or new musical numbers , no jabba the hutt cameos . 
and it's a testament to " grease " 's timeless success that nothing needs to be changed -- it's the same all-around blast it's always been , with an appealing cast in a fun story told with great music . 
to '90s viewers , " grease " will probably recall disco and bellbottoms as much as it made its original audience nostalgic for doo-wop and poodle skirts . 
but regardless of what decade it transports us to , we can all agree on one thing -- without a doubt , " grease " is still the word . 
the party is one of those classic slapstick comedies that will leave you , at times , cracking up . 
the film takes place , for the most part , in real-time during an exclusive evening party that is attended only by the biggest names in hollywood . 
hrundi v . bakshi , played very well by peter sellers , is a struggling actor who just came to america from his homeland , india . 
hrundi tries out his acting talents , but it seems that he just isn't cut out for the job . 
on the set of his current film that he stars in , hrundi seems to make everything go for the worse . 
during the filming of this movie set in the 1800's , hrundi manages to annoy the director ( herbert ellis ) in any way he can . 
this includes a pitiful acting job in many scenes , wearing an underwater watch in one scene , and accidentally detonating a massive set . 
many of the hollywood producers and big names want hrundi out of the business forever . 
and when the director makes a personal phone call to mr . clutterbuck ( j . 
edward mckinley ) pleading for hrundi's ejection from hollywood , everything is pretty much over for hrundi . 
clutterbuck writes his name down on a piece of paper to insure that hrundi will never again work in hollywood . 
but when this piece of paper turns out to be the guest list for clutterbuck's exclusive party , hrundi is invited , and certain chaos is bound to occur . 
of course , as predicted , hrundi causes lots of trouble . 
each scene in which hrundi encounters a situation , usually one that he can't handle , is almost always very humorous . 
and each scene with hrundi and the drunken waiter , who is alone hilarious , adds to the comedy in a great way . 
the party can be compared to many other films of it's type , specifically the trio of naked gun movies and the airplane movies , but the party is a delightful movie that incorporates very well played out comedy into believable situations . 
it also includes a number of memorable scenes ( can anyone say " birdy num-num " ? ) . 
if you're in the mood for fun and enjoyable slapstick comedy , check out the party . 
it's not going to be one of your all-time favorites , but if you enjoy this type of humor , you'll enjoy the party . 
once again , the battle is dreamworks versus disney : earlier this year , the mammoth companies fought to the death with their end-of-the-world asteroid flicks , deep impact and armageddon . 
here we are now , just a few months later , and they're at it again with dueling bug movies , antz and a bug's life . 
what i find so astonishing is that both pairs of movies are so inherently similar in both story and execution . 
i mean , come on -- what were the chances of two studios both deciding to bring out computer-animated films about bugs ? 
as was the case with the meteor movies , disney has come out on top : though antz is a likable movie , a bug's life is far superior . 
in fact , this movie made me realize what was wrong with antz : i became immersed in the world of a bug's life , while antz just made me scrutinize everything . 
but it's not really fair to base an entire review on a comparison . 
a bug's life is a remarkable film in its own right , and deserves to be seen apart from any other computer-animated film about bugs . 
in fact , it's one of the best films this year : it's smart , subtle , and funny , but it's also perfect family entertainment and relentlessly entertaining . 
i haven't had such a good time at the movies in months . 
it tells the story of an ant named flick ( voice by dave foley ) ; he's a nice guy , but he's also a troublemaker . 
the ants spend all season putting together the offering , a big pile of food that they provide for the grasshoppers . 
just before the grasshoppers come , flick accidentally knocks over the offering , and ruins everything for the entire colony : the grasshopper's leader , hopper ( kevin spacey ) , is enraged , and tells them that the ants need twice the food by the end of summer , or they're all dead . 
flick , feeling responsible for this , sets off to look for help -- he realizes that the only way to be rid of the grasshoppers is to fight them . 
he heads to the city ( the city being a house a few miles away ) , where he finds a colorful bunch of circus bugs : a ladybug ( denis leary , who is spectacular ) , a black widow ( bonnie hunt ) , a caterpillar ( joe ranft ) , a butterfly ( madeline kahn ) , a rhinoceros beetle ( michael mcshane ) , and a stick ( david hyde-pierce , also giving a hilarious performance ) . 
flick doesn't know they're actors , and they don't know that flick needs them to kill a bunch of grasshoppers , so they return to the colony with flick and find themselves in an unusual position . 
the most obvious element of a bug's life is the quality of animation . 
created by pixar , the same people who brought us toy story , a bug's life has some of the most amazing visuals i've ever seen . 
the bugs seem to inhabit a three-dimensional space , and occasionally there will be a shot that is indistinguishable from live action . 
this is a lush , colorful world , full of life and imagination : the way the animators insert the things all of us see in our daily lives ( matches , bottlecaps , tin cans , etc . ) and make them active objects in the bugs' world is innovative . 
the film is also mercilessly exciting , particularly in a superbly-staged scene involving our heroes' escape from a bird ( a little bird never seemed so huge and threatening ) . 
but the makers of a bug's life know where the importance lies : story and characters . 
flick , with solid voice work from foley , is a great guy to lead the story . 
but the real treat comes with the circus bugs ; they're such a likable group of characters -- the standouts are the stick ( hyde-pierce is so good ) , francis the ladybug , and the big fat caterpillar . 
all of these bugs have more than a token personality , which makes the suspenseful scenes work because we care about the bugs , and it also keeps the tear-jerking scenes from seeming obligatory . 
in my review of antz , i said that the film is a clever cop-out because it presents a bunch of little humans reacting to an ant-like existence . 
in concept , a bug's life is basically the same movie , except that i was never given enough time to find things that i didn't like about it . 
with such strong work in both animation and script , a bug's life is nothing but a joy to sit through . 
it really is too bad that it had to come out so close to that other bug movie , but a bug's life is so good that i'm sure it will find its audience . 
after a slew of endlessly violent and cynical movies , it's downright refreshing to sit through an innocent picture like this and laugh without feeling guilty . 
eight years after its release , disney has decided to re-release the little mermaid theatrically for 17 days ( and 17 long nights ) only . 
coincidentally , it was reintroduced to theaters the same day fox's animated film anastasia was released . 
you know disney , they can't deal with the threat of any other studio getting even a small piece of the crust of the kiddie entertainment pie , so when someone else wants to make a little money , they counter with an old " masterpiece " from their vault and , you know what , i went to see this 1989 cartoon rather than the brand new one from fox . 
let no one say disney is losing its monopoly on the market . 
they still have hotels on boardwalk _and_ park place . 
believe it or not , today , november 25 , 1997 , at 5 : 05 p . m . , i saw the little mermaid for the first time . 
it took me a few years to get over an aversion to this movie that was caused seven years ago , when i stayed with one of my mom's friends for a couple weeks . 
they had a young child who listened to the little mermaid soundtrack constantly and , over that two week period , i heard every song from the movie probably a hundred times . 
by the time i got back home , i promised myself i'd never see the movie . 
but promises are made to be broken , especially when you're looking at a 17-day , limited engagement . 
damn those shrewd disney marketers and their mind games . 
the little mermaid is based on a hans christian anderson fairy tale , but it's disney-ized , which means lots of talking animals and bursting into song . 
it also means the heroine is a total babe who shows off cleavage from a seashell bra at all times . 
i never wanted so much to be a pair of shells . . . 
the heroine , of course , is ariel ( voice of jodi benson ) , a 16-year-old mermaid who is going through that rebellious phase . 
she skips her concert to explore a wrecked ship and hang out with a seagull that talks like buddy hackett , who tries to orient her to the mysterious world of humans . 
she's also dealing with feelings she hasn't had before -- which comes when you get scales in places you didn't use to have them -- about a handsome prince ( no disney movie would be complete without one ) . 
her father , king triton of the merpeople , strictly forbids such lusting after the ways of the " savage " humans , in a condemnation that reads as a not-so-subtle analogy about old- fashioned parents who forbid interracial dating . 
what's a king to do , though ? 
the girl's in love and even total destruction of her little shrine to the human world doesn't deter her . 
ariel saves the prince's life when a hurricane rises up , and just has to meet him . 
she makes a deal with ursula , the sea witch ( voice of pat carroll ) . 
you know she's evil because she has a huge potbelly and one of the worst asses in cartoon history . 
she also has octopus tentacles for feet ( something those dr . scholl's corn pads will not fix ) and offers to help ariel out . 
she'll make her a human for three days if ariel will give up her pretty voice ; ariel has three days to make that prince kiss her , or else she becomes a slave to the witch forever . 
and if she pricks her finger on a sewing machine or eats an evil apple , she'll fall asleep forever . 
it's a simplistic plot , yes , but the little mermaid was a revolution in the disney world , coming after such lackluster efforts as the black cauldron and oliver and company . 
it ranks as one of the best disney cartoons , certainly since the '50s . 
all the elements are there -- memorable songs like " under the sea " and " kiss the girl , " cartoon animals like sebastian and flounder , an evil villain who still has characterization and charm , and a fair amount of humor that caters to adults as well as children . 
the little mermaid is worth a big-screen ticket in 1997 , so hurry up , you only have five days left . 
serving america for more than 1/25th of a century ! 
in a flashback , the teenage girl in the eccentric family in the canadian film , the hanging garden , tells her senile grandmother that she is going to a school dance . 
horrified , the grandmother wants to know if her granddaughter knows " the rule of 6 . " 
if you don't break off a kiss by the count of 6 , then you committed a sin with the boy . 
and most of all , the grandmother wants to know if she has " protection ? " 
she must carry a rosary in her pocket at all times . 
the richly acted film is written and directed by thom fitzgerald in a quirky but loving style . 
although some may refer to the film as yet another dysfunctional family picture , that moniker misses the mark . 
yes , every member of the household has their own special problems , but the writer didn't choose to name so many characters for various flowers by accident . 
this delightful little picture mixes love , tragedy and pathos , resulting in a hopeful and almost magical concoction . 
during the opening credits we observe the boy , sweet william , at the center of the story . 
first , he's an average sized young lad who is slapped off-screen by his father . 
next , he's 300 pound teenager , played with hopelessness and depression by troy veinotte . 
when the opening credits end , we cut to 10 years later . 
william is now an average-sized , reasonably happy adult , played with love and compassion by chris leavins . 
william has returned after 10 years absence to attend the marriage of his free-spirited and foul-mouthed sister rosemary to his first childhood lover , fletcher ( joe s . keller ) . 
kerry fox from an angel at my table and shallow grave plays rosemary with a compelling joy . 
nicole burnell , who gave such a devastating performance in the sweet hereafter , plays the teenage rosemary . 
the father of the family , whiskey mac ( peter macneill ) , is an alcoholic autocrat who is more obnoxious than harmful . 
his wife , iris ( seana mckenna ) , says that she would have left him years ago to at least go to some place warm were it not for her lack of money and her obligations to the kids . 
rounding out the family is christine dunsworth as nine-year-old violet , the sister whom william meets for the first time . 
as the exuberant irish music fills the air at the wedding in the family home , william wanders off to try on one of his old coats , which causes him to laugh at the size of his former self . 
the director manages to stage simple scenes in wonderfully imaginative ways . 
he takes a common wedding dress train and uses it to set up scenes in fresh and fascinating ways . 
rosmary's trip to the bathroom after drinking too much beer is beautifully orchestrated , and kerry fox is at her hilarious best trying to cope with the long train in a small bath , all while talking to her brother . 
as much as anything , the film is a series of character sketches . 
in one of the strongest we watch william in a flashback as he has his first sexual encounter , a homosexual one . 
although he is perfectly happy liking the same sex , his mother is aghast . 
a woman friend of hers suggests she take william to a local housewife , dusty miller ( martha irving ) , who , for a fee , will have heterosexual sex with william . 
with absolute finesse the director crafts a subtle scene that manages to yield significant emotional punch without being sensational . 
dusty , after asking iris to watch her daughter , takes william and gently introduces him to the joys of sex with the opposite sex . 
all of this notwithstanding , he still prefers males . 
the film is at its most poignant in several sequences in which the grown william comes face-to-face with himself when younger . 
this causes his ugly old memories to be reignited . 
in the most devastating , he has to come to grips with his former self who was so overwhelmed with the stress that he tried to hang himself . 
even here , the director touches your heart without ever letting the story dissolve into anything approaching a tearjerker . 
the ultimate result is an uplifting story that has more hope that one would ever expect from the outline of its plot . 
the hanging garden runs 1 : 31 . 
it is rated r for strong sexuality , language , violence and some teen drug use and would be acceptable for teenagers only if they are quite old and mature . 
 ( dimension films , " scream 2 " 's distributor , has asked press to say extremely little -- if anything -- about the film's twisty plot . 
that's no easy task considering the wit that deserves to be mentioned here , but i will do my best to be vague ( now , there's a first ) . ) 
 " the first one was [good] , but all the rest sucked , " said a cinematically-savvy teen in last winter's wes craven thriller " scream , " her statement referring to the films of the " nightmare on elm street " series but really putting down franchise overkill in general . 
the comment certainly carries clout : for every truly great sequel , there appears to be a couple of duds , making one wonder if writers are better off sticking solely with fresh ideas . 
but like it or not , along comes " scream 2 . " and believe it or not , it's a doozy -- a slick , sinister , madly subversive good time at the movies , as intent on sending up hollywood's sequel syndrome as much as its prequel poked fun at slasher conventions . 
 " scream 2 " is definitely that rare movie thing -- a follow-up that can stand along side its original with pride . 
it's been two years since a pair of overzealous horror movie fans clad in edvard munch-esque get-ups carved their way through the young populace of woodsboro , california . 
those surviving the ordeal have gotten on with their lives . 
plucky heroine sidney prescott ( neve campbell ) is a drama student at the midwestern windsor college ; her pop culture-whiz pal randy meeks ( jamie kennedy ) has tagged along . 
trash tabloid reporter gale weathers ( courteney cox ) has written a best-seller based on their ordeal , the basis of which has been turned into a ( very bad ) movie called " stab . " 
and dewey riley ( david arquette ) , still suffering from wounds inflicted during " scream , " has left his job as a police officer for a while . 
life is tranquil . . . 
at least for a while . 
several sudden murders bring sidney , randy , gale and dewey together again , but with suspicious eyes cast on each other and most of those in their surroundings -- if these four people learned anything from the past , it's to trust no one . 
thus , the possible victim/potential killer list includes said quartet , as well as : derek ( jerry o'connell ) , sidney's new beau ; cici ( sara michelle gellar ) , a chatty sorority gal ; joel ( duane martin ) , gale's cameraman who's not too thrilled with her blood-soaked past ; hallie ( elise neal ) , sidney's sassy roommate ; debbie ( laurie metcalf ) , a local reporter who gives gale some not-too-friendly competition ; and mickey ( timothy olyphant ) , randy's good friend and fellow film student . 
cotton weary ( liev schreiber ) , the man sidney wrongly accused of her mother's murder in scream , also shows up on campus -- but why ? 
like the first scream , craven and screenwriter kevin williamson inaugurate things with a bang . 
this time , it's an extended sequence that finds an african-american couple ( jada pinkett and omar epps ) attending a sneak preview of " stab , " making sly references about everything from sandra bullock to the lunchmeat non-roles of blacks in slasher cinema . 
before tragedy ensues at the screening , the movie-within-a-movie setup allows for plenty of jokey moments , including a scene from " stab " which turns scream's now-famous drew barrymore prologue on its ear . 
 ( " b---- , hang up the phone and star-69 his a-- ! " 
pinkett yells at the screen . ) 
it's funny , creepy stuff ( i don't think i'll ever feel safe in a movie theater again ) that effectively foreshadows the ratio of smart scares and spoofy laughs down the road . 
another flawless example of this is a riotous cell phone-assault of the killer on randy , dewey and gale in broad daylight ; it builds comedically and ends with genuine terror because of the emotional investment made on these delicious characters . 
there are other superb set pieces , but explaining them risks ruining their effect . 
there are more players this time around as to provide both a higher number suspects and a staggering body count . 
it's something of a trade-in -- the new characters are too large in number to be as fully-developed as the original " scream " gang , but this movie packs in knowing performances ( especially by kennedy and cox ) and more death for your dollar . 
it can be argued that , while the original might outclass it by a tad , scream 2 is both scarier and funnier . 
it certainly doesn't skimp with shocks -- a major one being the killing of one cast member very near and dear to my heart ( i actually questioned craven and williamson's judgment here , considering how much this person has added to these films ) . 
sometimes you wish that more could have been done with stab -- the two scenes we're shown are dead-on -- but for film fans , there are plenty of subtle nods to movies like " the usual suspects , " " aliens " and " the empire strikes back . " 
still , " scream 2 " does so many things right , it's petty to quibble . 
its penchant for parody is irresistible , discussions of the merits of film sequels and all . 
the attractive , solid cast is a definite bonus . 
and the denouement ( while not as shocking as " scream " 's ) is priceless ; the film's final revelation incorporates bits of a particular horror film prominently referred to in " scream " with one of the best bad guy motives ever put on paper . 
all this and a " scream 3 " is in the works . 
knowing the series' tendency for self-reference , perhaps one of its characters will again discuss the concept of sequel justice . 
mentioning " scream 2 " 'll help them in their argument . 
edward zwick's " the siege " raises more questions than it can convincingly answer or even clearly articulate . 
its subject is the rising threat of terrorism in american cities . 
denzel washington is anthony " hub " hubbard , who runs the fbi's anti-terrorism task force in new york . 
his investigation into arab terrorist cells intensifies when suicide bombers take out a busload of people . 
hub focuses on a mysterious cia operative ( annette bening ) , whose goes by both " elise " and " sharon . " 
as the terrorist attacks continue and the body count rises , the question of martial law is raised . 
enter general devereaux ( bruce willis ) , who opposes martial law at first but who , as soon as the president decides to send in the army , begins herding arab immigrants into a prison camp and attacking every link that hub uncovers in the terrorist chain . 
hub listens as devereaux tortures and murders a suspect . 
the future zwick and screenwriter lawrence wright offer is all too possible . 
what would happen , they ask , if terrorism became as much a fact of daily life in new york as it is in cities like beirut and belfast ? 
what would happen to our civil liberties if soldiers patrol our streets with machine guns ? 
these questions " the siege " answers in realistic detail . 
it implies tougher ones , though : what can be done to combat terrorism without sacrificing justice and freedom ? 
if we encourage terrorism abroad ( from bening's character we discover that the cia trained the bombers ) , will it inevitably come back to us ? 
 " siege " avoids the tougher questions by endowing its hero , hub , with a uncompromising sense of clear right and wrong . 
this comforting fantasy of sir galahad confronting the evils of the modern world is an escape from the thought-provoking issues the movie raises . 
still , zwick deserves credit for at least addressing the issue with as much realism as he does where so many movies ( willis' " die hard " series , for example ) offer only a comic-book view on terrorism . 
a movie that's been as highly built up as the truman show , with reviews boasting , " the film of the decade ! " 
and " a breakthrough ! " 
can only be leading up to letdown . 
that's no doubt -- it seems any movie with critical acclaim makes you think you're going in for the ride of your life , that you'll end up changed on the other side , and you come out of the theater going , " eh . . . 
 * that's * what all the fuss was about ? " 
so , naturally , the truman show was building up to what was going to be a dissapointment . 
and i convinced myself , as i nestled into my uncomfortable movie theater chair , actually to try not to enjoy it . 
let me tell you , that is an impossibilty . 
the truman show is truly " the film of the decade " and " a breakthrough " and more . 
and you will come out changed on the other side . 
such a movie comes around only once in a lifetime , where you find yourself feeling everything that the character is feeling , and this , friends , is it . 
jim carrey shows that he doesn't need to talk out of his butt to entertain us ; that he can be as dramatic as any of hollywood's leading men . 
the film has a difficult premise to tackle , trying to set us up thirty years into the " truman show's " run , but tackle it it does , and perfectly . 
with flashbacks actually being flashbacks on the television show , you get the sense that you are viewing a * real * prime-time hit . 
and the way the camera constantly takes the forms it would in the " real " truman show is clever and well-done . 
people , rejoice ! 
this is the first oscar-worthy film of not only this year , but of the last five years . 
not since " schindler's list " has a movie captured human spirit and true despair so well . 
this is a classic in the making , and ( to borrow a line from esquire's review ) it stars jim carrey . 
nothing in his career to date and nothing he can do in the future will ever be able to top his role as truman burbank ; mark my word . 
for , as i said , this is the movie of a lifetime and the role is of the same calibre . 
forget special-effect ladden summer fodder . 
drop your romantic comedies in the trash . 
toss your thrillers and teen flicks on the pile . 
you need nothing more than " the truman show " to carry you through the summer , or for that matter , the year . 
oh ! and in case i don't see you , good afternoon , good evening , and goodnight . 
go's is a gloriously slick hip machine . 
director liman ( who also photographed go ) and screenwriter august celebrate the drug/rave scene in l . a . , preferring to take ( comedic ) snapshots of troubled youth rather than critique them . 
after more than ninety minutes of pill-popping , tantric sex , car chases , and attempted murder , go even has a happy ending . 
this is the sort of film that gives members of the dove foundation splitting headaches ; as go wound down , i anticipated an anti-pill-popping-casual-tantric-sex-car-chase-attempted-murder sermon that ( blessedly ) didn't arrive . 
a la tarantino's pulp fiction , go is comprised of three separate but related stories . 
the basics are as follows : ronna ( polley ) is a bitter grocery store clerk facing eviction who turns to drug dealing for extra dough . 
her co-worker , simon ( the improbably named askew ) , is a clubber from britain ecstatic about his first trip to vegas . 
zack ( mohr ) and adam ( wolf ) are soap opera stars escaping a career-threatening conviction by assisting a peculiar cop ( fichtner ) in a drug bust . 
perhaps because the innovative structure of tarantino's non-linear masterwork is by now old hat , the id-fueled go delighted me but rarely surprised me ( with the exception of that mind-reading cat ! ) ; 
pulp fiction zigzagged down roads unforeseen , but we see go's wheels turning from its first flash frame to the last . 
torontonian polley ( of the sweet hereafter ) refused to do publicity for this picture on the basis that she was " not pleased with " her turn as the ill-fated cashier . 
in go , she delivers , hands-down , her best performance to date . 
here's an ( overrated ) actress who agreed to appear on the poster , but not support her team at the junket or in interviews ; this sort of arrogance is commonplace for ms . polley , as anyone who has read of her political agenda in the canadian press will tell you . 
if she doesn't want to be the ingenue of the moment , she should have said " no , " not go . 
but i digress . 
go is a fun film , so chipperly depraved one can't help but turn off his moral judgment for its duration and enjoy the ride . 
in that sense , it's a departure from liman's last film , swingers , which at least lectured against self-absorption in the form of vince vaughan's trent and his subtle comeuppance in the story's clever epilogue ( which has been aped by mcdonald's for their latest commercial ) . 
i wish i cared more about go's characters : like the techno music they listen to , the bands of anarchists on display here are at once absorbing and vacuous . 
when the lights came up and stung my eyes , it was difficult to recall what about it entertained me . 
yet entertain me it did . 
go is light and frothy , featuring compelling if not endearing work by polley , timothy olyphant ( scream 2 ) , and especially fichtner , whose homoerotic behavior is milked for effective laughs . 
fichtner is a character actor best known for playing backstabbers ( in heat , armageddon , and others ) ; his previously untapped comic abilities shine in go . 
unlike much of the film , fichtner is unpredictable . 
what's shocking about " carlito's way " is how good it is . 
having gotten a bit of a bad rap for not being a big box office hit like pacino's previous film , " scent of a woman , " and not having as strong a performance as he did in that one ( he had just won an oscar ) , " carlito's way " was destined for underrated heaven . 
that's what it is : an underrated gem of a movie . 
and what a shame because pacino and de palma both do amazing jobs with it , and turn it into a great piece of a pulpy character study . 
 " carlito's way " deals with , well , carlito brigante ( pacino ) , a puerto rican ex-drug kingpin , who gets out of a long jailterm when his coke-addicted , curly-haired lawyer ( sean penn ) points out a legal technicality . 
of course , carlito was actually awoken in prison , and has decided to go straight , even if he's really a crook at heart . 
carlito , like barry lyndon , is a man who is trapped by fate at every turn , and can't escape into something he is not . 
carlito's attempts at a clean , legal life are thwarted at nearly every turn . 
when he first gets out , a friend of his ends up leading him into a big shoot-out , where he has to kill a couple people to survive . 
he's constantly getting bugged by the government to see if he's doing anything illegal , and his lawyer finds himself neck-deep in a pile of shit , needing him to try and help him out , which includes him doing some prison breaking . 
carlito , like ratso rizzo , wants to go to miami ( since , according to film logic , that's where it's at ) , but needs some funding . 
being a legend , he is quickly able to get a nice job running a big dance club ( this is the 70s , by the way , and since some of this takes place in night clubs , we get to hear all sorts of 70s classics , including several k . c . 
and the sunshine band tunes - my personal favorite ) . 
he gets a bodyguard ( the great luis guzman , at his best ) , and is soon running a pretty good business , even if he's constantly attracting underworld young thugs , like benny blanco " from the bronx " ( john leguiziamo ) , who is more than once pointed out to be a young version of carlito . 
on the other side , the symbol of promise and hope , is gail ( penelope ann miller - what happened to her ? ) , his girlfriend from before prison . 
she's a goregeous ballerina , and a stripper , and soon carlito is trying to get back with her , and take her with him when he finally leaves for miami . 
while this relationship is never fully defined or anything , we get a sense of love between them , and they have some truly interesting scenes between them ( she never gives him addresses or locales - he always has to track her down ) . 
all of these elements clash together at the end , in a brilliantly executed , emotional climax , which is inevitable . 
when i say inevitable , i mean we see it at the beginning and then backtrack , putting a great spin on it . 
sure , it's going to eleveate some of the tension , but it gives the film a lot of depth , as carlito is seen trapped by fate . 
what's amazing is the big chase sequence ( amazingly done by de palma ) has a lot of tension and thrills . 
like " apollo 13 , " we know what's going to happen , but we're still thrilled by what happens in the middle . 
it's also very emotional , thanks to a great script by david koepp , and amazing performances by pacino and miller . 
de palma is famous ( or infamous ) for lots of violence in his films . 
his earlier flim , " scarface " ( which starred pacino in the lead ) , has a ton of it , especially at the end ( and a nasty chainsaw scene towards the beginning which i'm still not over ) . 
but de palma actually reigns in more quieter scenes . 
to me , the best scene in the film is when carlito is on top of a building , looking down into the room where gail is doing ballet . 
this is the most brilliantly done , and most emotionally stimulating scene in the entire film , and probably the best in de palma film history . 
with a gorgeous soprano duet in the background , and rain pouring down onto a trashcan lid covering carlito's head , and a saddened , remorseful look on pacino's face , it's a tear-jerker ( well , for me , i dunno about you . . . ) . 
the acting from all is great , especially from the three leads . 
pacino was panned for his performance , chiefly because his accent wasn't puerto rican enough and , well , it wasn't as " strong " as his oscar-winning role in " scent of a woman . " 
well , his " scent of a woman " performance was great and all , but it was nothing really but , as comic kevin pollack said , a " foghorn leghorn impression . " 
in " carlito's way , " he's emotional , and strong , despite the fact that he's remorseful over his entire lifestyle , which he cannot change . 
i felt more for carlito brigante than i did for the tango-dancing , insult-throwing blind guy in " scent of a woman . " 
as i said , penelope ann miller is great , and she and pacino actually have very good chemistry . 
and they're scenes are well-written , with some good clever dialogue which adds some interest to an otherwise bland relationship . 
and sean penn is amazing as the coke-addicted rat attorney . 
every scene he's in , he has great energy , and even measures up to the greatness that is pacino . 
in smaller roles , john leguiziamo and luis guzman are great . 
 " carlito's way " is one of those films which you heard about briefly , but when you finally watch it , you're absolutely blown away . 
it's a wonderful film , a highly underrated little masterpiece which was shelved after it didn't do so hot . 
but trust me and check it out . 
it's a great little film , and proof that the residential critics and mass populus are not always right . 
life is beautiful is a rare treat : a lighthearted comedy that tackles a very serious subject without committing the sins of being disrespectful , or , even worse , humorless . 
it combines a charming romance with a dash of farce , stirs in a little poignancy , and ends up a very enjoyable movie . 
it's an italian film , but don't let that discourage you . 
subtitle-phobes will be missing a wonderful experience . 
life is beautiful opens as a sweet romantic comedy , with the clownish , but good natured guido ( roberto benigni ) arriving in a rustic italian town to work as a waiter for his uncle . 
the year is 1939 , and guido literally stumbles into the girl of his dreams , dora ( nicoletta braschi ) . 
their romance seems to be picture perfect , with only one stumbling block : she's already engaged to another man . 
can guido overcome the odds and win his girl ? 
what do you think ? 
however , five years later , things have taken a turn for the worse in italy . 
the fascists have stepped up their race initiatives , which is bad news for the jewish guido and his new son giosue ( giorgio cantarini ) , who are rounded up and shipped off to a concentration camp . 
unable to protect his boy in any other way , guido attempts to shield his young son from the horrors of the labor camp . 
he pretends that everything is all an elaborate game , with points awarded for such tasks as hiding , being brave and being very very quiet . 
as you can tell from the description , life is beautiful has two very different tones , but manages to excel at both of them . 
as a romantic comedy , it is sweet and funny . 
as a bittersweet tale of hope amid despair , it is touching . 
roberto benigni's work here has been compared with some of the best of chaplin's , and it is easy to see why . 
he is able to run the gamut of comic expression , from slapstick to farce , with a warm-hearted feeling that celebrates his downtrodden hero's " triumph of the underdog " spirit . 
life is beautiful treads a thin line when it turns its attentions to the holocaust . 
however , it is able to successfully navigate the minefield , without demeaning the gravity of the horrors involved , nor without losing its humorous edge that allows you to smile through the tears . 
with life is beautiful , benigni has created a triumphant , but bittersweet comedy . 
it's quite simply one of the most enjoyable times i've had at the movies this year . 
you've probably heard the one about the priest and the rabbi , but never with the same dosage of featherweight charm that is sprinkled over `keeping the faith' . 
it's a fluffy comedy , thoroughly glazed with a sense of innocuous innocence and good cheer , regarding two moral topics -- love and religion -- and how a romantic triangle causes the two to collide head-on . 
as youngsters , brian finn , jacob schramm and anna reilly were an inseparable trio . 
while their friendship progressed , anna always had the compassion to shower them both with the same love and support , so neither would feel excluded . 
but tragedy soon struck , as anna was forced to move away . 
now adults , brian ( edward norton ) and jacob ( ben stiller ) hold similar but contrastive jobs . 
the likable and kind-hearted father brian is a catholic priest , while the spry and outgoing jacob acts as a jewish rabbi . 
on the basketball court , they refer to themselves as `the god squad' . 
in the relationship field , brian abides by his catholic principle of celibacy , but jacob has reached the point where finding a jewish bride is practically mandatory . 
everything changes when anna ( jenna elfman ) returns to new york to visit her childhood chums . 
now a workaholic , she devotes endless hours per week to her business , but does find spare time to reminisce with brian and jacob - both ecstatic about seeing their elementary school sweetheart once again . 
with these oddball ingredients tossed into one cocktail , there's bound to be some awkward romance between our three central characters . 
predicting the outcome is not entirely difficult , but `keeping the faith' is open , entertaining and refreshingly relaxed as it travels en route from point a to point b . 
edward norton has emerged as one of the finest , most flexibly versatile actors in hollywood - a success story sparked by his critically lauded debut in the 1996 thriller `primal fear' . 
after shockingly bitter roles in `american history x' and , most recently , david fincher's vicious `fight club' , a quaint romantic comedy might seem like a peculiar choice . 
not in the least . 
norton slips into the director's chair for the first time with `keeping the faith' , and here his incisive , resourceful approach helps add additional craft to a surprisingly perceptive screenplay by stuart blumberg . 
weighing every aspect , it is unanimously an impressive directorial debut . 
in addition , norton pushes all the right buttons with the sheepish sweetheart brian , generating a thoroughly likable screen presence . 
stiller ( the zipper guy from `there's something about mary' ) is firm and funny , boasting a fully-ripened comic maturity . 
elfman's perky repetition can grow tiresome ( such is occasionally the case on tv's `dharma and greg' ) , but she seems perfectly rambunctious here . 
the remaining cast members offer fine support , from anne bancroft as jacob's animated jewish mom to milos forman as an elderly priest quick to contribute intelligent advice . 
`keeping the faith' is the perfect date flick . . . 
though perfection is not a word to associate with the film in general . 
there is turbulence during the process of lift-off , as numerous failed attempts at establishing the situation cloud the projected comedy ahead . 
once the film does settle in , it is often funny and always cheerful . 
stiller , norton and elfman have created three enormously lovable personalities . 
we enjoy their interaction , understand their various dilemmas and feel humbled to realize everything rings perfectly true . 
this is excluding the ending , which is acceptable and all , but seems to lack the charm and spontaneity of the preceding romantic entanglements . 
nonetheless , a narrowly mishandled finale certainly won't wipe the smile off your face , nor anyone else's in the audience . 
`keeping the faith' is a highly enjoyable romantic comedy , although one that is more observant while surveying the questions of love rather than religion . 
aww , what the hell . 
the quality is not quite heaven-sent , but this little charmer could revive our `faith' in a potentially tired filmmaking genre . 
naturally , at the core of leon gast's " when we were kings " is the fight itself , for what a fight it was . 
thanks to the business savvy of don king , an ageing muhammad ali was pitted against the formidable hulk of heavyweight champion george foreman . 
fans were treated to an 8 round battle of endurance and strategy , as much as brute strength , that immediately entered boxing lore . 
with the benefit of the first-hand recollections of that old ex-pug norman mailer , this classic conflict is brought back to life . 
but " when we were kings " tackles issues that are harder to pin down than the simple facts of a boxing match . 
questions of political power and social justice appear throughout this documentary . 
gast could hardly choose otherwise , considering the vocal , uncompromising politics of muhammad ali . 
a member of the controversial black separatist movement the nation of islam , ali opens gast's film with a forceful swipe at the united states . 
when ali hollers " damn america' , the audience knows the imprecation is heartfelt ; the brutal yet casual way it is uttered leaves no doubt that ali is speaking his mind . 
his decision to buck the draft for vietnam is defended with the same admirable fury : " no viet cong ever called me nigger " , ali reasons . 
despite showcasing ali's proud unequivocal politics , one of the most impressive features of " when we were kings " is the subtle way in which the documentary considers the difficulties inherent in the overarching philosophy of black unity and black symbolism that ali and his supporters champion . 
listening to the film's numerous commentators , it is clear that the geographic location for this " rumble in the jungle " is etched more in the imagination than anywhere you could place on a map . 
spike lee tells us that the event was a pilgrimage , a " coming home " to africa . 
foreman reminds us that africa is the " cradle of civilisation " . 
fair enough , but this homeland is a specific nation cursed with a less than inspiring reality . 
it is the newly founded zaire and it is ruled by president mobutu , a brutal dictator . 
while ali respects mobutu's ability to forge an independent african state , mailer notes that beneath the stadium in which the titans battled lay hidden the presidents well-stocked torture chambers . 
mailer's insights are lost on most of the film's commentators . 
george plimpton recalls that he always felt he was in the congo , rather than the newly christened zaire . 
with admirable restraint , gast quietly suggests that for many the grandeur of myth and history all but obscured the reality of zaire' s squalid ruling elite . 
mobutu is not the only dubious character to benefit from the heady symbolism of black power . 
don king , resplendent in yellow kaftan and at ease with the " messiah " label attributed to him by a loyal disciple , passes himself off as the voice of a new black international solidarity . 
understandably , foreman believes he has gotten a raw deal . 
he may be , as one sympathiser notes , " blacker " than ali , but he is denied the iconic status shared by ali , the thuggish mobutu , and the tacky huckster don king . 
africa , zaire , inspirational leader or vicious dictator , all is left undifferentiated , unconsidered , in this optimistic celebration of black unity . 
little wonder that the people of zaire were shocked to find that ali's opponent wasn't white . 
admittedly , these issues are only hinted at , rather than substantially explored . 
the audience must consider the significance of these issues themselves , in their own time . 
there is just too much to cover , too much that is truly worthy of celebration , for a protracted political analysis to be justified . 
the excitement of james brown and b . b king in concert , for instance . 
and of course there's always ali to consider , as he shamelessly , and hilariously , hams it up in front of the camera , shadow boxing and uttering one inspired rhyme after another - " we gonna get it on coz we don't get along ! " . 
doubtlessly , considering the multi-faceted nature of the extravaganza they chose to cover , the makers of " when we were kings " faced numerous difficulties in deciding what issues , and what personalities , best deserved their attention . 
fortunately , by refusing to simplify their complex subject matter , they have captured the richness and excitement of this unique event . 
kolya is one of the richest films i've seen in some time . 
zdenek sverak plays a confirmed old bachelor ( who's likely to remain so ) , who finds his life as a czech cellist increasingly impacted by the five-year old boy that he's taking care of . 
though it ends rather abruptly-- and i'm whining , 'cause i wanted to spend more time with these characters-- the acting , writing , and production values are as high as , if not higher than , comparable american dramas . 
this father-and-son delight-- sverak also wrote the script , while his son , jan , directed-- won a golden globe for best foreign language film and , a couple days after i saw it , walked away an oscar . 
in czech and russian , with english subtitles . 
anna and the king strides onto the screen in full regalia , wearing a brilliant suit of sumptuous landscapes , deep , vibrant colors and an epic storyline . 
it's true beauty comes from it's subtle ruminations on the politics of power , whether it's between governments , or the interplay between a man and a woman . 
anna ( jodie foster ) is a widowed british schoolteacher with a touch of wanderlust trying to grasp her quicksilver feelings concerning the recent death of her husband . 
with son in tow , she takes the employ of king mongkut ( chow yun-fat ) to tutor his son in the english language . 
mongkut sees the strength of the british and correctly surmises that his country's future lies in opening itself up to the ways of the western world . 
anna function is to help provide that link . 
the core of the film , of course , deals with the blossoming love between anna and mongkut as it attempts to germinate in the unfriendly soil of a shifting political climate . 
foster plays anna with equal parts clenched jaw and wide-eyed wonder . 
she is assertive , yet , respectful of the king as she initially tries to impose her western sensibilities upon him . 
it is one of foster's strongest performances since silence of the lambs in a role she could not have played earlier in her career . 
she brings a mature self- awareness and determination that might not have come across from a younger foster . 
it's a joy to watch her cagily bargain for her own measure of influence within the realm of mongkut's monarchy . 
when she makes her entrance into a politically charged banquet mid-film , she exudes a hypnotic beauty that is deepened by her textured performance . 
chow-yun fat's king mongkut is every measure of foster's anna , perhaps even more so . 
this is the chow yun-fat that hong kong cinema has been in love with for nearly twenty years . 
he is imposing , yet vulnerable , playful , but stern . 
it is an impressively assured and nuanced performance . 
precious time is stolen from the movie's 155 minutes running time by an unengaging subplot involving one the king's concubines ( bai ling ) and her love of a commoner . 
it strikes with the subtlety of siam's fabled white elephant as it stomps through the leisurely paced story . 
some may be put off by the action filled climax of the movie . 
although a bit inconsistent in tone from the rest of the film , it fits within the established subplot of a perceived siege by neighboring burma , a country backed by the british . 
anna and the king transcends being a predictable , traditional love story by avoiding mawkishness . 
it shows a seduction of intelligence . 
ever mindful of each other's positions , anna and king mongkut negotiate a maze of social customs , conflicting world views and lost loved ones to connect on a level that ultimately proves deeply satisfying , if not achingly bittersweet . 
while screen adaptations of john irving's novels have been disappointingly uneven , the films have all shared one particular strength : key casting . 
who can forget john lithgow as roberta muldoon , the transsexual quarterback of " the world according to garp , " or nastassja kinski as susie the bear in " the hotel new hampshire " ? 
a lot of good casting decisions have gone into the making of " the cider house rules , " an adaptation of irving's poetic 1994 novel about a restless young man called homer wells . 
among those sound judgments was the decision to have the splendid tobey maguire assume the pivotal role ; the decision to cast michael caine as his mentor and father figure , dr . wilbur larch , the ether-addicted head obstetrician of the st . cloud's orphanage , maine ; and the decision to offer jane alexander and kathy baker supporting roles as his head nurses . 
then there are the brethren who populate the apple orchard where homer wells finds himself shortly after leaving st . cloud's , including delroy lindo , oscar ? -worthy as the foreman of the migrant work detail that drifts up and down the coast as the seasons take them . 
there's kate nelligan as the matriarch of the cider house , and charlize theron as candy , the lovely , lonely wife of a wwii bomber pilot ( paul rudd ) sent away on a mission overseas leaving candy to set lobster traps with homer wells , a man who's never seen the ocean before let alone a lobster . 
am i forgetting anyone ? 
yes . 
kieran culkin and paz de la huerta as dissolute orphanage residents who make you sit up and take notice every time they're on the screen . 
but with " the cider house rules , " the good people decisions don't end with the cast . 
irving has written his own screenplay in order to get it right this time ( last year's " simon birch , " loosely based on his " a prayer for owen meaney , " was a big-screen example of irving handled sub-standardly ) ; the author appears fleetingly as a stationmaster here . 
rachel portman , a composer of such sweet and lyrical tenderness , provides a score that's absolutely right for the project--sweet , lyrical , and tender . 
there's impressive new england photography by oliver stapleton too . 
last but by no means least is " my life as a dog " director lasse hallstr ? m , who shows enormous skill in pulling this collective together and helping bring irving's marvelously touching story to life . 
for the many beloved who pass away in " the cider house rules , " it's an extraordinarily life-affirming story . 
and now , thanks to these talented individuals , it's an extraordinarily life-affirming film . 
scream 2 has a titillating little scene that lays down the unwritten law of horror movie sequels quite well . 
during a film-class discussion , windsor college students articulate what these inevitable laws are , and why sequels never live up to the originals . 
a few rare exceptions are noted , but they left out one . 
 . 
 . 
scream 2 ! 
1996's surprise horror blockbuster scream became an instant hit and developed an obsessive coterie of fans which included almost every teenager in america ! 
a sequel was unavoidable , but luckily the re-teaming of writer kevin williamson and director wes craven gives us nothing to fear in the way of lost entertainment . 
in fact , at the risk of sounding sacrilegious to all the adorning fans of scream , i would say that scream 2 might even be the better film ! 
sidney prescott ( neve campbell ) , the sinuous heroine who survived a series of murders in woodsboro , ca in the original scream , is now two years older and off to college , majoring in theater . 
meanwhile , tv journalist gale weathers ( courtney cox ) , who covered the murders in the first film , has since written a book about the dreadful events ; a book titled " stab " , which has been developed into a major motion picture . 
as scream 2 opens , a crowd of overzealous teenagers are piling into a crowded movie theater for the premiere of " stab " , and before long , a young couple are butchered to death , unnoticed in the midst of hysteria . 
this marks the beginning of a new murder spree as an unknown " copycat " sets out to repeat what's been done . 
 . 
 . 
and finish what hasn't ! 
of course the killer is just as obsessed with movies as the killer in the first film , and yes , movies play a huge role in the bizarre psychological outlook the murderer holds as he/she goes about slaying an assortment of gorgeous twenty year olds , but this * is * a sequel , and without deviating from the original groundwork we are still given a fresh outlook on horror movies . 
this is in large part due to williamson's deliciously written script , which will easily leave you satisfied . 
as much as the film condemns the use of cliches , it is riddled with them , but it is done so effectively , and with skillful direction by craven , that you're not bound to complain . 
i will note , however , that the " whodunit ? " 
did wind up being the first person i suspected , but believe me , i kept changing my mind as i tried to stay one ahead of the movie . 
all the actors outdo themselves here . 
we're not talking oscar performances , but cambell , cox , david arquette as dewey riley , and jamie kennedy as randy all give surprisingly satisfying performances that go beyond their last outing . 
the characters remain true to their roots , and yet show a clear sign of development over the last two years . 
we can see how the events in the first film has affected them , but we don't lose any of the luster that made them such a delight to watch in the first place . 
the nice thing about scream 2 is that it doesn't seem off-kilter from it's predecessor . 
it's a natural , smooth , and believable ( as far as horror films go ) transition from film to film . 
we skip two years , but there doesn't seem to be any holes or shortcuts taken in connecting the two flicks . 
it flows so well that you feel more like you're reading chapter two of a book ( long chapters , eh ? ) 
than just revitalizing a cast of familiar faces . 
while main characters are usually the only connection in sequels , scream 2's entire plot structure correlates * completely * with the first , making for immediate fondness and absorption . 
as i said before , scream 2 easily lives up to , if not surpassing , it's precursor . 
the only reason scream will likely be hailed above scream 2 is because it was the first . 
this doesn't mean that it overcasts the unique , whimsical humor or overall caliber of it's sequel , it just means that scream will forever be known as the movie that mocked it's own while maintaining it's sought-after qualities . 
if ever a film followed it's original so well , it would be scream 2 , and it makes this a definite must-see for all those unbridled scream fans out there . 
scream 2 fits snugly alongside scream , and will hopefully receive as many high remarks . 
it would top off the series quite well , if it weren't for the fact that two movies don't really make a series . 
it's unlikely to assume that a scream 3 won't appear in the next few years , but if they do decide to turn this into an undeniably acclaimed horror-trilogy , let's hope they can keep up the fantastic work . 
like they say , don't mess with perfection . 
 . 
 . 
but when a money-making smash-hit is almost guaranteed , who's gonna listen ? 
devotees of robert a . heinlein , be forewarned : paul verhoeven's starship troopers is less an adaptation of heinlein's novel than it is a literary satire . 
the author's jingo-all-the-way militarism and his tendency to create plastic characters with plastic conflicts had me expecting a soulless , faceless parade of carnage from the film version . 
and i suppose that's exactly what verhoeven delivers , with sometimes hilarious results . 
heinlein's basic motifs are so faithfully rendered that their flaws become a source of amusement , while their strengths become the stuff of high-energy entertainment . 
outlining the plot of starship troopers is a fairly silly endeavor , since it's basically a big bug hunt . . . aliens in broad daylight . 
sometime in the future , humanity is threatened by giant , malevolent insects which have evolved into twenty-foot-tall action figures ( arachnids with super-impaling spikes , beetles that spew forth lava , dragonflies with guillotine legs ) . 
among those who sign on to save the earth are a group of high school classmates from buenos aires : conflicted rich kid johnny rico ( casper van dien ) ; his math whiz girlfriend carmen ( denise richards ) ; dizzy ( dina meyer ) , who secretly carries a torch for johnny ; and carl ( neil patrick " doogie howser " harris ) , who not-so-secretly carries a torch for dizzy , and also has a talent for speaking telepathically to ferrets . 
while carmen heads for flight school and carl joins military intelligence , johnny and dizzy become mobile infantry , their various battles intertwining with romantic sub-plots out of a third season episode from " beverly hills 90210 . " 
so if starship troopers is another movie where one-dimensional characters wade through trite situations on their way to killing a bunch of aliens , what makes it any better than , say , independence day , a movie where one-dimensional characters waded through trite situations on their way to killing a bunch of slightly different aliens ? 
for one thing , you sense that the film-makers are aware of the pulp nonsense they have as source material . 
the very absence of major stars in the cast feels thematically appropriate , not just fiscally prudent . 
if starship troopers had been turned into a tv-movie , aaron spelling would have produced it . 
it's a story which requires emoting , not acting ; it's a prime time soap opera with big guns , played for all the dopey melodrama it's worth . 
the no-name cast also plays into verhoeven's treatment of heinlein's most controversial conceit . 
in this society , we learn , one can only be a full citizen after completing some sort of federal service , military for most . 
verhoeven pays the notion plenty of lip service , then proceeds to skewer it with brilliant mock recruitment ads ( named after the world war ii-era " why we fight " series ) in which youngsters are indoctrinated into the joys of firearms , or the pleasures of stomping cockroaches . 
these characters really are just " fresh meat for the grinder , " as one character puts it , which makes their lack of familiarity all the more fitting . 
it's not that starship troopers is anti-military , because it never treats the true horror of war as anything but a great big , violent video game . 
in fact , the characters are living the propaganda ( particularly johnny , who receives so many field promotions he may not remember his own rank by the time the film ends ) . 
verhoeven is actually having it both ways -- he's making fun of gung-ho boosterism even as he fires his fresh-faced recruits into battle on a gung-ho booster rocket of visual effects . 
if that makes starship troopers hypocritical , at least it's enthusiastically staged hypocrisy . 
there may not be a person worth caring about in the whole film , but it moves like nobody's business . 
verhoeven stages some thrilling action sequences , sending swarms of bugs after the anonymous grunts then having various body parts strewn about the screen like landscaping . 
it is that rare special effects blockbuster which demonstrates a sense of pacing to match its budget ; i was caught up in the action enough of the time that i wasn't perpetually groaning over the absence of real human beings . 
i wish i could find it in myself to work up more outrage over the callous way humans are dispatched in starship troopers , but it didn't work out that way . 
that would be punishing verhoeven for getting to the heart of his material . 
no , it is not a bad film , in fact it is so good in achieving its = purpose , i actually wished for the film to end itself quickly . 
event = horizon is not your run-of-the-mill sci-fi film , i'm sure many who have = watched this will agree with me . 
it is not even original in that sense , = and it does borrow heavily from films like alien , hellraiser and even = blade runner . 
the magic of this film lies in its unorthodox setting and = methodical build-up that makes it wonderfully horrifying . 
the story brings us to the year 2050 , where space travel have since = enormously progressed . 
the event horizon is actually a ship built for a = secret experimental purpose ; it has the ability to fold time and space = thus making it possible for travelling distances not reachable in a = man's lifetime . 
the ship disappeared as soon as it went into operation = but after 7 years , it reappeared again within the orbit of neptune . 
a = search and rescue team led by miller ( fishburne ) is given the task to = check for survivors of the event horizon . 
the designer of the ship , dr . = weir ( neill ) follows along to satisfy his curiosity on what actually = happened to his otherwise technologically impressive ship . 
event horizon is a sci-fi horror film , much truer to the word than say , = alien would ever be . 
while in alien , the crew has to cope with a = ferocious creature while encased within tight spaces , in event horizon , = the forces which goes against the crew is undefined but yet so powerful = and horrifying . 
the story unfolds itself slowly and the suspense buildup = is superb , up till the point where i really felt like saying out loud = `enough ! 
i can't stand this anymore ! ' . 
there are more than enough jolts = to send your adrenalin pumping overtime . 
the story in itself is not = exactly something very exciting and also , the acting is only at most , = average by most commercial standards . 
even so , the essence of horror is = carried out very well in this film , thanks to its well-paced = storytelling , disturbing set designs and some really gory sequences = ( which incidentally , has been quite generously removed by our censorship = board ) . =20 
director paul anderson ( who did mortal kombat ) and his team of = `atmosphere' creators have done well in keeping event horizon within the = bounds of the term `horror' . 
this picture did not do very well in the us = box-office most probably for the dread-factor impact it has on most = audiences ; people will not see it again and not many would recommend = their friend to watch this . 
although on the face of it , event horizon is = mostly molded for mass-entertainment ; many thrills , spills and suspense = to keep audiences in focus . 
however , the offbeat horror element which it = ultimately convey audiences is very disturbing . 
my friend and i could = not say a word to each other for quite a while after going through the = `experience' of event horizon . 
i guess it was just the immense feeling = of dread which the film had cast upon us . 
be forewarned , this film is not for the faint-hearted nor for pure = entertainment . 
be prepared to be disturbed if you should decide to watch = this film ! 
event horizon is highly recommended=85=85but at your own = risk ! 
it has been a long time since good-horror embraced the big screen , = and event horizon is one . 
the " italian hitchcock " and acknowledged master of the giallo murder-mystery dario argento again offers us a fascinating turn on the formula in pheneomena . 
this time the twist comes in the form of jennifer corvino ( jennifer connelly ) , a bright teenager with gift for telepathically communicating with insects . 
sent to a girls boarding school in switzerland , she soon learns of a series of bizarre disappearances and at least one murder that has the school's population terrified . 
a chance meeting with a brilliant entomologist ( donald pleasance ) leads the two of them to team up and solve the mystery with the aid of her remarkable gift . 
phenomena is an imaginative , original thriller . 
writer/director argento creates several sequences of surreal , haunting beauty here , including a masterfully shot sleepwalking episode and a striking scene when a swarm of flying insects descends on the school at jennifer's beckoning . 
the plot takes some wonderfully bizarre turns and the killer's identity is genuinely shocking and surprising . 
the director took a big gamble with a soundtrack that mixes elements as diverse as heavy metal band iron maiden , ex-rolling stone bill wyman , and argento's favourite gothic/electronic outfit goblin . 
but it gels surprisingly well . 
the film's opening music reccurs several times , an eerie and evocative score that perfectly sets the overall tone . 
argento fans beware : the film was released outside europe in a terribly butchered form re-titled as creepers . 
this deleted nearly half an hour of footage , mainly of key dialogue scenes . 
film adaptation of hunter s . thompson's infamous semi-autobiographical hallucinogen-fueled book of the same title . 
director terry gilliam of twelve monkeys ( 8/10 ) and brazil ( 7/10 ) fame , took over the helm of this project after fellow director alex cox ( sid and nancy ( 7 . 5/10 ) ) 
 " apparently alienated everyone associated with the movie " , according to gilliam . 
plot : writer thompson ( depp ) heads down to las vegas with his attorney dr . gonzo ( del toro ) to cover a motorcycle race . 
during their trip , they systematically consume " two bags of grass , seventy-five pellets of mescaline , five sheets of high powered blotter acid , a salt shaker half-full of cocaine , a whole galaxy of multi-colored uppers , downers , screamers , laughers , a quart of tequila , a quart of rum , a case of beer , a pint of raw ether and two dozen amyls . 
the movie presents us with the results of that heavy drug use . 
critique : i have given this movie two separate ratings because i believe that the enjoyment of this psychedelic picture is highly correlated with the amount of drugs or alcohol that would be floating around in the viewer's own mind , whilst inhaling this cinematic vision of excess . 
if you are prepared to get high or intoxicated before watching this film , i would say that this is one picture that you will thoroughly enjoy on a multitude of colorful levels . 
if , on the other hand , you decide to stray from the addition of nefarious elements to your system , i could not imagine you truly appreciating much of this drug-induced picture's entire ride ( 5 . 5/10 for all those sober dogs ) . 
note : i have not read thompson's book . 
having said that , joblo did engage in an alcohol-based consumatory session before ( and during ) the viewing of this film , so his critique of the film should be appreciated on that level . 
this movie relies heavily on style and peculiar humour , rather than substance or plot . 
it moves admirably from one scene to the next , without much basis of their being , while presenting us with the two days in the life of writer hunter s . thompson during which he seemed to consume more drugs and alcohol than anyone could ever imagine . 
it was 1971 , and the times were apparently " a' changing " in the states . 
johnny depp chews into his role like an overgrown child sucking on a chocolate lollipop . 
during the filming , depp apparently become fast friends with real-life writer thompson , and was known to wander off the set from time to time , for the sake of checking out the newest barmaid at the local watering hole . 
i thought he did seem to exaggerate his walk a little bit too much , but then again , this movie is supposed to be a wild exaggeration of everything and anything , so who am i to talk . 
the one thing that did blow my mind was the actual physical transformation endured by actor benicio del toro for his role as dr . gonzo . 
i couldn't believe that this fat , samoan lawyer , was the same guy who played the slick mumbling criminal in the usual suspects ( 7 . 5/10 ) . 
word on the street is that gained over 40 pounds for this role , and i must say that his look was deliciously reprehensible . 
plenty of cameos also pepper this kaleidoscopic moving picture in the form of ellen barkin , christina ricci , tobey maguire and cameron diaz , along with a bunch of others . 
other than that , the soundtrack was expectedly eclectic , the style was not as wild as i thought it would be , and the ending was certainly not much of a barn-burner , but then again , who really noticed . 
this movie is about visions of bats floating through your head , johnny depp looking goofy and being bald , and the cornucopia of drug-ravaged scenes filling your own intoxicated system with ideas of anarchy , rebellion and the lost american dream . 
and for all those who plan on seeing this movie without the partnership of a mean drink or a mighty doobie , i suggest you move further down the aisle , buy yourself a ticket to godzilla ( 6/10 ) , and enjoy the visual fabrications manufactured for the unstimulated mind . 
little known facts : depp and del toro snorted plenty of powdered milk instead of cocaine . 
bill murray also portrayed a thompson-based character in the film where the buffalo roam . 
johnny depp turned down roles in the three musketeers , speed ( 7 . 5/10 ) , and legends of the fall ( 7 . 5/10 ) , for smaller and quirkier roles in benny and joon ( 6 . 5/10 ) and what's eating gilbert grape ? 
 ( 7/10 ) . 
in 1988 , depp told rolling stone magazine that he'd tried every drug by the age of 14 . 
johnny hung out with some of the members of oasis while filming the uncompleted divine rapture in ireland , and later played some slide guitar on the 1997 album , be here now . 
johnny was born in kentucky , is a high-school dropout , has nicknamed himself " mr . stench " , has been engaged to four women until now ( including actress winona ryder , whose " winona forever " tattoo had to be altered to " wino forever " after their breakup ) , currently plays guitar in a band called " p " , and owns the viper room nightclub in l . a . 
what is freedom ? 
how does one determine who is free ? 
in 1839 , those questions were more difficult to answer then they are now . 
yet , the mistakes of our forefathers must be examined in order to rectify current situations . 
that is , in essence , what steven spielberg's gripping drama " amistad " is about . 
through its various dramas , spielberg presents a case about a group of africans , who , after being seized from their home , were forced onto a ship and sent to the united states aboard " la amistad " . 
on their way there , the slaves , led by cinque ( djimon hounsou ) , rebelled , killing off part of the crew . 
however , the ship was still directed towards the united states , where the africans were brought to trial under murder . 
in the court , various factions claim ownership of the slaves , and therefore try to seize them away . 
the united states government , led by president martin van buren ( nigel hawthorne ) , and secretary of state secretary forsyth ( david paymer ) , try to ship the africans to spain , where an 11 year old isabella ii ( anna paquin ) wants them back . 
the two spaniards who own " la amistad " want the slaves for themselves . 
the american ship that found the slaves also wants them . 
in the midst of this are two abolitionists ( stellan skaarsgard and morgan freeman ) , who want the slaves to be free . 
they enlist the help of lawyer matthew mcconaughey , who tries to free them . 
through various legal proceedings , the case appears before the supreme court , where it is argued by ex-president john quincy adams ( anthony hopkins ) . 
the film itself is a visual wonder . 
spielberg favorite janusz kaminski sets the film in a dark , somber mood when appropriate , and a visual setting when appropriate as well . 
at times , the film is very slow , and very methodical . 
however , spielberg is not at his finest here , because the courtroom scenes have a tendency to lag . 
the film is , in essence , a courtroom drama , one whose events are oversimplified . 
the characterization is also weak , displaying weaknesses in building up characters such as the lawyer baldwin ( mcconaughey ) , and especially morgan freeman's abolitionist . 
but spielberg's finest work in the film , the opening scene , a scene of cinque's family , and the brutal voyage of the slaves to america , is altogether stunning . 
it is this emotional force that carries the film . 
mcconaughey is superb as the lawyer defending the africans , hopkins is sensational as the old adams , freeman is outstanding when used ( spielberg vastly under uses his supreme talents ) , and the rest of the cast is stellar . 
the movie , however , belongs to hounsou . 
his emotional intensity is brilliant . 
spielberg manages to make even the slowest scenes sparkle with focus on hounsou , and the film's extraordinary power is simply captivating . 
the film is flawed , for most of the supporting characters are merely cardboard . 
but that doesn't matter . 
the story is a gripping one , and one of extreme importance . 
kudos to spielberg for finding it , finding the right men for the job , and letting the audience listen to the words of cinque . 
a good job all around . 
your friends and neighbors is a rather bizarre film about 6 people , who hop in and out of bed with each other . 
written and directed by neil labute , who's first film , " in the company of men " was simply marvelous , disappoints a bit here with this one . 
the story involves two couples ( ben stiller & catherine keener and aaron eckhart & amy brenneman ) , an artist assistant ( nastassja kinski ) , and an egotistical women abuser ( jason patric ) . 
the character's names are not apparent and are not mentioned in the entire movie . 
each of the characters has their own sexual style and they don't seem to " merge " together well . 
so the group experiments behind their respective partners back . 
there are some hysterical scenes , one involves jason patric , aaron eckhart , and ben stiller's characters . 
they are all in a sauna , talking about their best " lay " , when jason patric's character makes a surprising confession . 
the whole scene is hilarious and exceptionally well written and acted . 
the enjoyed this movie , although it seemed a tad lengthy ( even though it only runs 99 min . ) . 
the film's cast is exceptional with oscar caliber performances by catherine keener , aaron eckhart , and jason patric . 
i would not recommend this film , to people who are offended by conversations that are very sexually explicit . 
it did seem to offend people , more than half of the people in the theater left during the film . 
although your friends and neighbors doesn't have the power of labute's earlier film it still manages to be somewhat entertaining and funny , while maintaining a melancholy philosophy on human relationships . 
i love this movie , and i've just seen for the umptenth time . 
unfortunately , it is also completly unknown and very few have seen it . 
it's my mission in life to spread the word : see this movie ! 
fred , george , doug and howie are reaching middleage . 
three of them have a wife , kids and a house in the suburb with a mortgage to pay . 
only fred is still a bachelor . 
together they take the local train every morning to work in town . 
on one of their organized thursday evenings at a bar , fred tells them of his boss and the arrangements he has made to keep a mistress . 
he has gotten an apartment in downtown where he can meet her but has told his wife that he needs the apartment to spend the night after staff meetings every thursday night . 
since they always split everything four ways , they decide that they should get an apartment with a young woman as well , kathy . 
however , kathy isn't completly honest to them . 
in fact , she is a sociology student writing a thesis about the sex life of the suburban male . 
with these four species she believes that she will make a very good paper . 
ok , have one thing clear though . 
the romantic rendezvous' between kathy and each of the men are completly innocent . 
the script stays above the waist - or to be precise , above the neck . 
noboyd claims that kathy is their mistress , the four guys call her their 'companion' . 
the censorship board here in sweden considered it to be suitable only for people above 15 years , but that only shows how long ago 1962 was . 
small children could watch this without being corrupted . 
kim novak is as lovely as always in this movie , even if she seems to be a bit too old for a student . 
james garner is the playboy just like in many other movies . 
i liked howard morris the best as howard the accountant who has to diet to support his wife . 
tony randall is funny as always . 
1962 was more than 35 years ago . 
how many accountants , copywriters or investment bankers can today afford to live in a house in the suburb with a lot of kids and a wife who does not work ? 
this is the white middle class , i can't remember that i saw any blacks on the commuter train they use . 
these are the people who can count on their kids to live an even better life than themselves . 
perhaps this should also be a subject for a thesis in movie sociology ? 
i remember seeing the trailer of the black cauldron on the pinocchio video . 
it really scared me , and i didn't want to go see it . 
however , after i heard about how wonderful it was , i wanted to see it . 
i didn't get a chance to do so , until now . 
the film , disney's 25th animated feature , opens with a menacing shot of a great black cauldron unshrouded by mist as a narrator begins to tell the tale : a long time ago in the land of prydain , there was a king so evil , that his spirit was captured in the cauldron . 
it has been hidden for centuries , and whoever possesses it will have the power to conjure up an army of deathless warriors , and with them rule the world ? and destroy it . 
then , we meet a farmer-wizard , dallben , and his young apprentice , taran . 
taran dreams of being a warrior instead of being a `pig-keeper' ( they have a pig named hen-wen ) . 
one day , as he gives hen wen a nice warm bath , the pig goes crazy , and dallben then realizes , after watching hen wen's thoughts through a bucket of water , that taran must hide hen wen in the forest . 
an evil ruler known as the horned king is searching for the black cauldron , and only hen wen has the power to show its location . 
taran leads hen wen into the forest , but of course , he loses her , and tries to go find her . 
along the way , he meets up with a mischievous little creature named gurgi , who desires `munchings and crunchings' , much to his dismay ( besides , he stole an apple that taran was trying to use to bring back hen wen ) . 
when he hears hen wen's squeal from far away , though , he races to her rescue ? only to see her get kidnapped by dragonlike gwythants . 
taran chases after the gwythants and finds himself staring at the horned king's castle from far away . 
taran climbs the castle walls , and brings himself into the castle , where he attempts to rescue hen wen . 
he manages to do so , but he is himself captured and thrown into the dungeon . 
there , he meets princess eilonwy ( and her magic bauble , another thing which the horned king was hoping to use to find the cauldron ) , and the two escape through the deep castle walls . 
along the way , taran finds a sword in a burial chamber , and they rescue a comic bard named fflewdurr flamm , who has a harp whose strings break whenever he tells a lie . 
the three manage to escape the horned king's castle , but not before taran realizes that his sword is magic . 
as they rest in the forest , gurgi reappears , claiming to have found hen wen's trail . 
he leads taran , eilonwy and fflewdurr , by way of `pig tracks' , to a whirlpool . 
suddenly , they all get sucked under , and they meet the fairy-like fairfolk . 
taran is reunited with hen wen , and informed that the black cauldron is hidden in the land of morva . 
he then devises a crazy idea that if they can destroy the cauldron , it would prevent the horned king from destroying their world . 
with the help of a grumpy fairy named doli , the four travelers manage to find themselves at a mysterious cottage . 
it turns out to be no ordinary cottage ; three comically strange witches inhabit the place . 
when taran tells them that they are searching for the black cauldron , they agree to let him have it ? in exchange for his sword . 
taran agrees , much to eilonwy's horror , but at least they get the black cauldron . 
but ? the cauldron can't be destroyed , only its evil powers can be stopped . 
the only way to do so is for a living being to climb into it of his own free will ? never to return alive . 
things take a turn for the worse when the horned king's henchmen capture taran , eilonwy , and fflewdurr , along with the black cauldron , and lead them back to the castle . 
taran , eilonwy , and fflewdurr watch in horror as the horned king unleashes the supernatural powers of the cauldron to ressurect his army of deathless warriors ( this is the most horrifying scene in the film , because here , a dead army comes alive ? ) . 
just when all seems lost , though , gurgi reappears , and rescues taran , eilonwy , and fflewdurr . 
taran is about to jump into the black cauldron , but gurgi stops him , not wanting him to throw his life away . 
gurgi then jumps into the black cauldron , and the deathless warriors decay . 
taran tries to find a way to rescue gurgi , but he is forced to do battle against the horned king . 
he kicks the horned king away , who is then magically sucked into the black cauldron , where its powers immediately destroy him completely . 
taran , eilonwy , and fflewdurr manage to escape from the horned king's castle just as it self-destructs . 
the witches then reappear and attempt to take the now useless black cauldron away , but fflewdurr stops them , saying that they `never give anything away , they bargain' . 
in response to this , the witches offer taran his sword back , but taran instead has a new trade : the cauldron for gurgi . 
the trade is made ; gurgi's seemingly lifeless body reappears before the heartbroken group . 
as taran cradles him in his arms , though , gurgi stirs-he is not dead after all ! 
the happy group then returns home , where hen wen ( brought home by the fairfolk once the dangers are past ) , dallben , and even doli , await their triumphant return . 
as spectacular as it sounds , the black cauldron really suffered a lot in its past times . 
before ron miller was fired from his position as chairman of walt disney productions , he had bought a novel by lloyd alexander called the black cauldron , a sword and sorcery tale for the studio . 
bringing this book to the screen was the studio's fondest dream . 
miller , who entitled himself as the executive producer , promised that they would do so after they had proved themselves on other projects . 
when micheal eisner and his executives arrived at the disney animation studio , the animators were struggling to complete the black cauldron . 
by this time , things had gone really rocky for the animation department . 
many of the studio's old men had retired or died . 
therefore , the animators suffered a hard time making this film . 
originally budgeted at $25 million , the costs raised to $40 million because of constant changes on everything ? and when it was finally released on june 24 , 1985 , the black cauldron was greeted by praising reviews from some critics , but somehow the film flopped . 
the film was rated pg and the film , although `disneyfied' from lloyd alexander's chronicles of prydain ( which is what this film is based on ) , was much more scarier and darker than disney's other previous efforts , such as the rescuers and the fox and the hound , which is probably why so many people considered it too scary and stayed away from it . 
in addition , other critics rejected it for having `no heart' and `unmemorable' , compared to other disney animated features . 
but whatever the real reason , the black cauldron was a financial disaster , grossing only $21 million . 
the failure of the film grounded the studio's animation department , and exiled the animation team to annex buildings in nearby glendale , and it seemed like animated features would no longer become a part of the studio's reputation . 
the next two disney animated features , the great mouse detective and oliver and company , although a little more lighthearted than the black cauldron , didn't do much better ( although oliver and company grossed much more than the black cauldron and the great mouse detective ) . 
only with the little mermaid did the studio regain its reputation for successful animated features . 
as for the black cauldron , it was rereleased in some cities for a temporary time under the title taran and the magic cauldron . 
finally , the studio locked the film in the film vault and denied that it ever even was released . 
because of all this , you might ask yourself , was the black cauldron really such a bad movie ? 
the people who had seen the film didn't think so . 
in fact , many people had calls to buena vista home video requesting for the film , but of course , they denied it . 
for a while , it seemed like the black cauldron would never be released to video ? until september 1997 , disney released the black cauldron to video in the united kingdom . 
few people imported the video from england and converted to ntsc ( including me ) and for those who hadn't seen the film yet ( i am included here ) , they got quite a treat . 
but people who had bootleg copies of the black cauldron noticed that in the scene where the horned king raises his army of deathless warriors , about 12 seconds of ghoulish looking skeletons were slightly trimmed so that the film would get a u rating ( in the uk , the u rating means universal : suitable for all ages , kinda like their own version of g ) . 
somewhere online , a team of diehard the black cauldron fans signed a petition that said , `bring back the black cauldron ! ' , and because of that , disney finally decided to release the video to the united states . 
before that time , rumors online had been made that the video would be trimmed , like the uk video , so that it would get a g rating , and that they would add in songs . 
those rumors were put to rest when the walt disney company announced that the black cauldron * would * be released in its pg rated version . 
even still , when it was finally released to the us , some reaction was mixed . 
some felt that it was indeed cut , but some felt that it wasn't . 
but these where only minor criticisms which seemed laughable , since a film that was absent for thirteen years was finally available . 
as for myself , when i saw the movie for the first time ( on converted ntsc video ) , i didn't expect much at all . 
in fact , i had heard so many mediocre things about it , that i didn't think the film would ever be such a good film . 
much to my surprise , when i saw the first few minutes of the film , i was asking myself , " this is the same film everyone saw ? 
the one that flopped at the box office ? 
the one that critics and filmgoers alike called " a bad movie " ? 
this doesn't seem like all of the above . 
instead , it's a classic in its own right . 
the film has a wonderful cast of characters . 
there's taran ( grant bardsley ) , an assistant pig keeper who would rather be a warrior than a pig-keeper , the story's hero . 
the critics have said that taran is not likeable at all , but the opposite is true . 
he is brave , loyal , and eventually learns a lesson about friendship later on . 
there's a likeable character here ! 
not that he's the only likeable character in the film . 
there's gurgi ( john biner ) , a lovable little , uh , thing who remains loyal to taran , even though they don't quite hit it off at first . 
but another likeable character is the bad guy comic henchman , a dwarf named creeper ( phil fondacairo ) , who is loyal to the film's imaginative and sinister villain , the horned king ( voiced gruesomely by john hurt ) , yet he also fears his neck . 
the other characters , including the sidekicks , a spunky , but sweet princess named eilonwy and the comic bard fflewdurr flamm , and three comically wicked witches who hide a dark secret , although pleasant and likeable , aren't quite as well rounded as they should be . 
the story itself is an adventurous one , a quest involving the mystical pig , hen wen , the black cauldron itself , and an army of deathless ones with everything : a hooking opening to a spectacular finale . 
elmer bernstein's music also tells the story perfectly , in a dark , yet calming manner . 
the animation itself is surprisingly good considering that this film was created in the darkest time of the studios . 
even though there are some occasional effects that are not quite good , like the ground opening when the black cauldron rises out of the earth , the animation overall is top notch . 
overall ? this film is an entertaining endeavor . 
fans unfamiliar to the lloyd alexander chronicles of prydain will get a kick out of this one , except young kids . 
there are some extremely scary scenes which are more darker than disney's other films ( although some consider the stampede sequence from the lion king and frollo observing esmeralda in the fires of hell in the hunchback of notre dame are just as scary ) , which is the main reason why this film is rated pg . 
fans familiar to the lloyd alexander series will recognize the differences between the novel and the movie . 
even though it doesn't have all of the ingredients of a true disney film , this film is a classic in its own right , and deserves a far better chance than what it has been given . 
that better chance has finally come . 
whatever reason about why the black cauldron was such a big failure seems to have disappeared , and the film has finally achieved its place among disney's most proudest achievements . 
i can't help but think though , whatever would have happened if the black cauldron * was * a box office success ? 
quiz show , an almost perfectly accurate true story , is based upon the events of the popular television show of the mid-50's , " twenty-one " . 
on this trivial game show , contestants were placed in isolation booths and then answered questions corresponding to a category of their choice , on which they wagered an amount of points on . 
the game went on until a player reached twenty one points on felt they had earned enough points to win . 
but , after ratings began to fall when players were struggling to break the zero mark , the producers decided to fix the game by giving the answers to a contestant before the game began . 
quiz show illustrates the true stories of two particular contestants , herbie stempel and charles van doren . 
stempel ( john turturro ) , a former g . i . 
and your jewish man raising a family . 
stempel has been the reigning champion on " twenty-one " for many weeks and has accumulated thousands of dollars . 
in his mind , he is the best thing on television and the people love him . 
although , in the mind of the show's producers , herbie stempel is getting old . 
dan enright ( david paymer ) , in particular , feels that the people are tired of seeing a " jewish guy from queens with bad teeth " and that the kids need someone better to look up to . 
therefore , they need to find another contestant whom would be a worthy role model and the people will look up to and cheer to win . 
someone who can defeat stempel , even if they have to resort to cheating . 
enter charles van doren ( ralph fiennes ) , a well-educated professor from a widely recognized family . 
van doren had decided to try out for the game show " tic tac dough " because his friends thought he would be good at that sort of thing . 
but when albert freedman ( hank azaria ) , enright's assistant , spots van doren , the two decide that they have found their soon-to-be-ruler of the " twenty-one " kingdom . 
van doren is not too keen on the idea of receiving the answers ahead of time , so enright tells stempel that he is going to give the wrong answer , on purpose , in order to lose the game . 
after stempel loses the " throne " to van doren , he starts to feel cheated ( which he should ) . 
meanwhile , on his own , dick goodwin ( rob morrow ) , a harvard law graduate , has decided to start an investigation on " twenty-one " to try and find out if there have been any wrongdoings . 
his investigation yields shocking results and leads to a trial for enright and the others involved . 
quiz show is an extremely well done movie , and robert redford's direction is especially superb . 
the performances turned in by john turturro , ralph fiennes , and rob morrow are very good , although it seems that turturro stands out more than any . 
quiz show is also very precise when it comes to explicating the true events that inspired the film . 
definitely a film you should not miss . 
is jimmy stewart the greatest actor of all-time ? 
it's quite possible . 
his career spanned over 40 years , and he acted in more movies than most actors ever could . 
yet , when he is talked about in the media , he is generally thought of as an actor who played one type of role : the nice guy . 
and that's really a shame . 
 " the naked spur " features jimmy stewart in a role completely different than what people would expect from him . 
it's a western , which stewart specialized in around this period , and it casts him as a desperate man out to collect a bounty on a man who used to be his friend . 
before he finds that man , though , he runs into two men who agree to help him , thinking he is a sheriff . 
when the criminal is eventually caught , the two men discover stewart's secret , and decide they want a piece of the action too . 
the rest of the film is a suspenseful journey in which each man suspects the other constantly . 
also featured is the woman travelling with the criminal , well played by janet leigh . 
we're never too sure who's side she's really on until the end . 
leigh is an actress probably best known for her role as the " shower lady " from " psycho " , and that's unfair . 
she gives a strong performance as a woman who is pulled between these two men . 
stewart gives a performance unlike anything i've ever seen from him . 
he usually keeps cool no matter what occurs , but here , he gets downright hysterical at times . 
i think perhaps he took this role to prove to the public that he was more than just a " nice guy " . 
his performance borders on psychotic at times , but i loved watching every second of it . 
it's roles like this one that make me admire him as much as i do . 
he was an actor unafraid to take chances , and even ruin his public image . 
every once in a while you see a film that is so effective in delivering the goods that it is easy to forget , and forgive , its glaring imperfections . 
such is the case with ? good will hunting ? , a subtle character study about a socially inept mathematics genius who struggles to find his path in life . 
despite some serious character problems , this is still a very good film . 
you probably know about the plot so i ? ll make it quick . 
will hunting ( damon ) is a janitor at m . i . t . , he ? s really smarter than einstein but nobody knows it . 
he likes to go out with his friend chuckie ( affleck ) and their other working-class buddies and drink beer . 
he ? s good-looking , charismatic , and witty but has a terrible time with authority and stiff college folk . 
after getting into a tiff with the law , a distinguished professor ( skarsg ? rd ) discovers will ? s genius and offers him a chance to clean up his record and avoid jail time , at a price : he must attend weekly sessions with a therapist and work on various mathematical problems ( that have stumped the academic elite ) with the professor . 
after outsmarting and scaring the hell out of a couple of different psychologists he meets his match when hooked up with a once-promising therapist named sean maguire ( williams ) who has his own problems . 
in the meantime will meets a british medical school student ( driver ) and they begin to fall in love . 
the story starts out well enough and is a pretty original basis for a film . 
even though we ? ve seen movies about misunderstood , erratic prodigies before ( ? shine ? ring a bell ? ) , the script here creates a complex narrative that doesn ? t just focus solely on one character . 
alas though , this is not a perfect film , as much as you feel like it could ? ve been while watching it . 
the one real problem i had with it is the unrealistic nature of the main character . 
is it possible for a lowly janitor to be this intelligent ? 
of course . 
is it possible for him to be estranged from any deep , human relationships ? 
usually , yes . 
but , is it possible for him to also be so handsome , funny , quick with the tongue , and city-street tough ? 
not very likely . 
come on , usually these guys are total nerds who can ? t even buy their own shirts , much less talk down a harvard student in a hip pub while picking up phone numbers from pretty med . -school 
girls . 
will is just a little too perfect , and in order to accept the character your disbelief suspension needs to be in excellent working condition . 
the heavy-handed , anti-war statement made by will at a government job interview late in the film is also boorish , overlong , pompous , and completely unnecessary . 
all this sounds pretty bad , but the film somehow makes up for it in other ways . 
damon ? s acting overshadows the fact that the character is slightly unbelievable , his performance is truly extraordinary . 
which leads me to the really good part of the review . 
the strength of this movie can be summed up in one single word : acting . 
i can ? t recall seeing a film recently that was so well-acted from top to bottom . 
from minnie driver ? s frustrated lover to ben affleck ? s laid-back best friend , and all the small roles in between , the performances are magnificent . 
robin williams ? skill is a given as a bereaved psychologist who could ? ve had a legendary career but was knocked off the path somewhere down the line . 
the real gem though is stellan skarsg ? rd ? s turn as professor lambeau , an award-winning mathematician who feels reduced in comparison to a younger , smarter will hunting . 
the scenes between williams and skarsg ? rd , as two old college pals who ? ve been brought back together by this enigmatic kid , display some of the best acting i ? ve ever seen . 
when i say delivering the goods , this is what i ? m talking about . 
watching these two work is what going to see movies is all about . 
gus van sant ? s ( to die for , drugstore cowboy ) cold , urban direction is right on , as well as danny elfman ? s sauntering musical score . 
i highly recommend ? good will hunting ? . 
despite its faults , it is still an intriguing and fascinating film and you are not likely to see a better acted one this year . 
men in black is an explosive mix of science fiction , action , and comedy that hits the target in every possible way . 
although another alien movie , men in black succeeds in every way that independence day didn't , and towers above many other movies of its type . 
the brilliant acting , especially by tommy lee jones as agent kay , is also as good as it gets . 
director barry sonnenfeld , who was behind the camera for the addams family movies and get shorty , has crafted a masterpiece . 
the story behind men in black is just as interesting as you would want it to be . 
the men in black , or mib , are a top-secret governmental agency that is not known to exist . 
the mib are responsible for " saving the world from the scum of the universe " . 
a though job , indeed . 
the film opens with a truckload of illegal aliens ( the human kind ) being transported across the mexico border and into the united states . 
presumably , these " aliens " are all migrant workers . 
that is , until the mib show up and begin interrogating them . 
agent kay selects a particular suspicious worker and takes him away from the other local authorities to discover that he is not an illegal human alien , but a real extra-terrestrial alien . 
when the alien makes a run for it , agent kay is forced to eliminate the alien with one of the mib's very unique weapons , and after one of the local law enforcement officers witnesses this bizarre occurrence , agent kay is forced to use another very unique device on them . 
the device , described as " out of state " , eliminates the memory of anyone it is used on . 
>from here , we are introduced to james edwards , played very well by will smith . 
edwards , a police officer , is chasing a fleeing criminal . 
the criminal gives a very good chase , and at one point when edwards confronts him , the criminal pulls out a very different looking weapon that disintegrated when it hit the ground . 
edwards continues to chase the very athletic criminal to the top of a building , where the criminal informs edwards that he must let him go , because someone is after him . 
edwards doesn't take this seriously , but when the criminal shows very non-human characteristics and leaps off the building , he begins to wonder . 
back at the police station , agent kay shows up to ask edwards a few questions . 
he informs edwards that is was , in fact , a non-human that he was chasing , and that the gun he pulled out was definitely not man-made . 
he has edwards identify the gun , and asks edwards to come to the mib headquarters the following day . 
edwards arrives and finds that he is involved in a recruiting process , along with various other men who seem a bit more qualified than he . 
after goofing up for half of the time , edwards puts on a show at the firing range , and agent kay notes the reason why he feels edwards should be the man to join the mib : he chased down the " criminal " on foot , which is something that no one is supposed to be able to do . 
in the meantime , an upstate new york farm has a very close encounter . 
edgar ( vincent d'onofrio ) , owner of the farm , investigates a strange crash landing and is attacked by the inhabitant of the flying object , which presumes to jump inside edgar and use his body as a human transport . 
the " bug " , as he is called , is an intergalactic terrorist who has come to earth to attempt to kill two ambassadors . 
and it up to the mib , with newly recruited agent jay ( formerly james edwards ) to exterminate the bug and save the planet from intergalactic war . 
men in black delightfully combines fast-paced action with often hilarious comedy , which is usually from will smith , although tommy lee jones opens up his comedic personality in this film . 
the special effects are also very well done and are not the entire source of the plot , as in another big alien film from the past summer . 
screenwriter ed solomon , writer of super mario bros . 
and the upcoming x-men film , has surely struck gold with this story . 
all ages will enjoy men in black . 
it is an extremely fun film that you will want to see again . 
although it runs a very quick and speedy 96 minutes , the entire film from beginning to end is a non-stop adventure . 
the ending of the film , which ties up a few loose ends for one of the main characters , is also very well done . 
a sequel is already being planned , so there is more to look forward to ! 
ralph fiennes is carving out a nice niche for himself in the genre of period piece romances . 
for his followup to the academy-beloved the english patient , he has once again turned to a love story , this time directed by accomplished australian film maker gillian armstrong ( little women ) . 
despite some obvious overplotting , oscar and lucinda is a mostly effective and often affecting motion picture that touches our hearts while daring our minds to balk at its implausible coincidences . 
the film opens in the mid-1800s , with parallel storylines in new south wales , australia and devon , england . 
as the helpful narrative voice of geoffrey rush informs us , lucinda leplastrier ( cate blanchett ) is a headstrong young woman being raised in the australian outback . 
meanwhile , half the world away , oscar hopkins ( fiennes ) has broken with his puritanical father over religious issues , and has gone away to school to study to be an anglican priest . 
lucinda is fascinated with glass ; oscar is obsessed with theology . 
lucinda is rich ; oscar is poor . 
lucinda is forward and self-assured ; oscar is timid and uncertain of himself . 
yet one characteristic unites these two diverse individuals -- the compulsion to gamble , whether it's on horses , dogs , cards , or the flip of a coin . 
and fate has decreed that they will one day meet . 
that day doesn't occur until 45 minutes into the film , when oscar boards a ship bound for sidney , australia , where he hopes to change his life and minister to anyone in need of his help . 
another of the passengers is lucinda , who is returning from england where she was shopping for machinery to equip her newly-acquired glassworks factory . 
at first , their relationship is that of a reverend and a confessor , but it doesn't take long for both of them to recognize a kindred spirit in the other . 
a friendship is born , and , once they reach australia , it develops into something more potent . 
but oscar is uncertain of lucinda's affection , and feels he must do something to prove himself worthy of her . 
oscar and lucinda isn't beyond a little manipulation to get the desired emotional response , and there are times when the storyline curves in preposterous directions . 
on more than one occasion , it's apparent that events are occurring specifically to funnel the characters into a position where there is only one possible route . 
coincidence is a crucial plot device ; without it , this movie can't go anywhere . 
the voiceover narration ( never one of my favorite techniques ) is too verbose and breaks into the story at undesirable moments . 
 ( however , without it , the final twist , which i will not reveal , would not be as poignant . ) 
yet , despite these quibbles , i enjoyed oscar and lucinda . 
storyline faults pale in the light of two such finely-realized characters . 
thematically , the film is also strong . 
the unifying motif -- that everything in life is a gamble -- is successfully delineated . 
oscar and lucinda don't just wager their money , they bet their hearts , minds , and souls . 
a card game they engage in shortly after they first meet could easily be considered a form of emotional " strip poker " where defenses are peeled away to reveal their shared , secret passion . 
oscar does not see gambling as a vice . 
in fact , he believes that the greatest chance one takes in life is betting one's immortal soul on the truth of a religious faith . 
ralph fiennes , who normally plays strong , confident men , is very much at home as the fumbling , insecure oscar . 
the actor brings a variety of nervous tics to the part , all of which subtly add to a vague sense of discomfort whenever oscar is on-screen . 
as good as fiennes is , however , he is eclipsed by cate blanchett . 
the actress , who appeared earlier this year as one of the leads in bruce beresford's paradise road , is mesmerizing as lucinda . 
she gives this liberated woman her flash , and feeds the chemistry between the two lead characters so that it sparkles rather than fizzles . 
effective support is provided by ciaran hinds ( the male lead in jane austen's persuasion ) as lucinda's close friend , tom wilkinson ( the full monty ) as oscar's mentor , and clive russell as a self-serving adventurer . 
there's a real magic in the way armstrong develops the story , keeping things moving in unexpected directions without lingering too long on any one moment or sequence . 
 ( in fact , i wish she had devoted a little more time to the luminous middle act , which has oscar and lucinda together . ) 
with the skill of a consummate storyteller , she weaves romance , friendship , passion , humor , and tragedy together into a complete package . 
the characters , with all of their human foibles and neuroses , are wonderfully developed by fiennes and blanchett . 
so who cares if the storyline is a little ripe and unwieldy ? 
oscar and lucinda still offers abundant pleasures to reward the viewer . 
in october of 1962 the united states found itself on the brink of nuclear holocaust when u2 spy plane fly-overs of cuba revealed that the soviet union was actively deploying and installing medium range ballistic missiles 90 miles from the us . 
president john kennedy ( bruce greenwood ) and his staff must face this major threat to world peace and stop soviet expansionism in director roger donaldson's dramatic recreation of the most dangerous crisis in american history in " thirteen days . " 
one of the highlights to come out of made-for-tv movies was a 1974 entry called " missiles of october " that also recreated the historic event that almost embroiled the us , ussr and the world in an all out nuclear showdown . 
that teleplay , starring william devane and martin sheen as john and bobby , showed the political tensions of the period that brought to the fore the danger the world faced in those two weeks in 1962 . 
now , a quarter of a century after the landmark tv movie , director roger donaldson and producer kevin costner team together again ( the last time was for the taught spy thriller " no way out " ) to re-enact the events of that most dangerous time in america's and the world's history . 
taken from the viewpoint of special assistant to the president kenneth p . o'donnell ( costner ) , donaldson and crew recreate that volatile event , once again , as the country is plunged into what could have been total nuclear war . 
as o'donnell gets ready to head to work one october morning , he deals with the usual family crises and problems . 
meanwhile , a u2 spy plane photo mission over cuba has produced some startling images - medium range nuclear missiles in the first stage of deployment . 
suddenly , ken's routine day switches into crisis mode as the president and his key advisor bobby begin to muster the considerable forces of the us military to face the soviet threat . 
where " thirteen days " differs most from " missiles of october " is , as expected , in the scope of the project . 
there is a big difference , budget-wise , between making a television docudrama and one that goes to the big screen . 
it shows as the makers of " thirteen days " craft a recreation of the cuban missile crisis that encompasses not only the political intrigue within the white house , it also depicts the events that took place as america girds itself for nuclear confrontation . 
the cast , a true ensemble , is led , surprisingly , by bruce greenwood as jfk and not by kevin costner . 
costner's o'donnell represents the family guy thing as the drama of the crisis has its impact on him and his family . 
this puts a personal spin on the film as we see both the crisis and america's preparation for war and the pressure it brings to bear on those in the know . 
kenny reassures his wife and kids that all will be okay and they will be safe , but he knows that , if the crisis comes to a head , his family will be no more . 
the meat of " thirteen days " is in the big picture , not the microcosm of family , though . 
this is where the film stands out as we see the workings of our government on the highest levels . 
the story does not just cover the face-off between the world's two most powerful countries ; it also depicts the animosity between the president and the military/cia . 
the disaster of the bay of pigs invasion the year before left a distrustful taste in the mouths of the generals and admirals who blame the kennedys for not backing the cuban expatriates fighting fidel castro . 
the missile crisis becomes a struggle for power as the army/navy/air force want to flex their might and invade cuba , while jfk wants to end the confrontation peaceably but with america's dignity and world leadership intact . 
while the internal battle for power rages in the white house , with air force chief curtis lemay ( kevin conway ) advising the president to bomb cuba into the stone age , our armed forces are set into motion to stop the soviets with a blockade of offensive weapons to cuba . 
this is where the political intrigues of high office are replaced by exciting action . 
when the first confrontation takes place between a us warship and a soviet freighter , the tension is palpable . 
the most involving action sequence takes place late in the game as another u2 is sent up to shoot some snaps of the buildup and the fully prepared soviet forces launch an anti-aircraft attack on the hapless pilot of the spy plane . 
this is a sweaty palm sequence to say the least , making you squirm in your seat as you try to help the pilot avoid those missiles . 
the ensemble cast places greenwood as the first among equals with like weight given to all the principle players . 
greenwood does not play act at being a caricature of jfk , foregoing the typical kennedy boston accent . 
instead , he plays the man as a powerful figure who has to maintain the dignity of the office , directing his subordinates but giving them the latitude to make clear all of his options . 
kennedy used this decision by committee method to good effect as his senior staff uncovers all the options available to the president . 
costner , as ken o'donnell , is really a supporting cast member as a kennedy crony brought on board as a personal political favor . 
costner plays o'donnell as if he crammed on old jfk speeches with a forced kennedyesque twang to his speech . 
the rest of the players are first rate from start to finish with steven culp looking and sounding just like robert kennedy . 
the rest of the familiar players in this drama are uniformly well cast , too . 
standing out are michael fairman as the beleaguered us ambassador to the un , adlai stevenson , who was forced to become the challenging voice of the united states in the united nations and i remember the confrontation vividly . 
the filmmakers capture the accusations laid down by stevenson with accuracy , using old style video footage to good effect . 
dylan baker has the look and feel of the intelligentsia as the brainy secretary of defense robert mcnamara . 
kevin conway gives his general lemay the right " bomb them to hell " attitude . 
also notable is christopher lawford as navy pilot william ecker who , with his wingman , takes on the dangerous mission of a low-level photo recon into the heart of cuba , bravely challenging kenny o'donnell's admonition , " don' get shot . " 
tech credits are superb across the board with an admirable depiction of the us armed forces being placed on a war footing . 
it's an impressive production with the careful use of period aircraft and ships that gives the film a veracity fitting the event . 
solid costuming by isis mussenden is subtle but has the look of the kennedys . 
there is the usual array of vintage cars from the period to make things look right . 
the special f/x of the u2 sequences are a nice crafting of computer imaging . 
the cuban missile crisis is probably the most intense two weeks that the united states has ever faced in its survival as a world leader . 
helmer donaldson and his fine crew and cast have given the depiction of this crucial event with the care and attention to details that make this one of the finest docudramas of the year . 
i give " thirteen days " an a- . 
true faith and its expression through organized religion is a difficult subject for a motion picture to tackle head-on , which is probably why so few of them do it . 
even the most religious directors - like martin scorsese or ingmar bergman - usually address issues of faith in implicit rather than explicit religious terms . 
so it's not hard to see why it took robert duvall fifteen years to get " the apostle " onto the big-screen . 
as a matter of fact , even after fifteen years he still never managed to get financial backing , and he ended up paying for it with $5 million of his own money . 
he also wrote the script , directed the film , and starred as the central character , a fiery texas preacher named euliss " sonny " dewey . 
few filmmakers have the courage and sheer audacity to take on that kind of financial , technical , and creative responsibility single-handedly , and it's testament to what an intensely personal project this was for duvall . 
and , thankfully , every bit of that personal investment translates on-screen into power and honest emotion . 
sonny is an energetic , pentecostal preacher who has been speaking ( actually shouting ) from behind the pulpit since he was twelve . 
he spends much of his time traveling about the country , evangelizing with other preachers at tent revivals . 
unlike most hollywood characterizations of intense preachers , sonny is not a phony or a swindler , and the film's purpose is not to unearth hypocrisy and sin in either sonny or the church . 
duvall makes it abundantly clear that sonny truly believes in what he says , although like all humans , he has weaknesses . 
one of his weaknesses become apparent when he finds out that , not only does his long-suffering wife , jessie ( farrah fawcett ) , want to leave him for another man in the congregation , but the two of them have secretly plotted to remove him as preacher . 
faced with the loss of two things he loves passionately- his church and his family - that same raw power that allows sonny to get entire congregations rocking and swaying transforms into a violent temper . 
at his son's baseball game , sonny snaps and smashes his wife's lover in the face with a baseball bat , inflicting a wound that may be fatal . 
not knowing what else to do , sonny disappears . 
he throws away his identification , drives his car into a lake , and takes a bus to louisiana , hoping to start over again . 
in the tiny , mostly poor coastal town of bayou boutte , sonny once again finds his calling . 
after befriending a simple auto mechanic ( walt goggins ) and tracking down the town's ex-minister ( john beasley ) , sonny sets up his own church , the one way to heaven temple . 
re-christening himself as " the apostle e . f . , " he quickly draws together an eager congregation , and together they realize real change in each other's lives . 
but , always , sonny's past is lurking a step behind him , waiting to swallow his progress . 
duvall has made his intentions in making " the apostle " clear . 
in a recent article in " newsweek , " he wrote : " filmmakers hardly ever depict spirituality with such a strong emphasis on the holy spirit , and when they do , it tends to be patronizing - full of charlatans and snake handlers . . . 
but what i really wanted to do was try to understand what these preachers go through and what they believe , and to portray it in an accurate way . " 
the strength of duvall's convictions turn out to be the strength of his film - " the apostle " always rings true , even in the most painful moments , because we know he's being sincere with the subject matter . 
after fifteen years of traveling the country , listening to all shapes and sizes of ministers and taking studious notes on what they said , duvall has captured the energy and vitality of what it means to be truly spiritual . 
his sonny is a man who speaks directly to god and expects to be spoken right back to . 
 " i've always called you jesus and you've always called me sonny , " he says . 
when neighbors call and complain that he is being too loud one night in one his rants with the man upstairs , sonny's mother ( june carter cash ) just hangs up on them because she knows there's no sense trying to interrupt him . 
the main theme to emerge from " the apostle " is the fact that good can come from any situation . 
sonny's act of violence toward another human being is inarguably a horrific thing , and duvall never shrinks from that fact . 
however , that very same act of violence is what brings sonny to bayou boutte , where he finds people whom he desperately needs and who desperately need him . 
in his short time in louisiana , he does a world of good , and when the police finally show up to take him away , he goes quietly , knowing that he deserves the punishment that is awaiting him . 
and , as a scene during the final credits shows , he even turns his punishment into a positive opportunity for change and betterment . 
it is that strength in sonny's character that makes him so appealing and magnetic to others - he is flawed , but he is powerful enough to overcome those flaws . 
weak men are the ones who simply accept their weaknesses and lack the desire to better themselves . 
watching duvall on-screen , it's not hard to imagine that he would have been a magnificent preacher if he had chosen that vocation over acting . 
as sonny , he completely inhabits the character , and his performance is certainly the best of the year . 
because he spent so much time absorbing the traits , methods , quirks , and personalities of real preachers , duvall was able to create a complete character who always feels indelibly human . 
as a director , duvall feels that less is more . 
his camera simply takes in what goes on in front of it , with very little intrusion . 
there are no fancy crane shots or extended dollies or excessive close-ups . 
duvall knew that the power of the film's characters ( enhanced by the fact that he cast mostly non-professional churchgoers and actual ministers ) didn't need to be artificially enhanced . 
in this way , " the apostle " almost plays out like a documentary , not only in its technical simplicity , but more importantly , in its sense of reality . 
when a someone journeys to the theater to see a comedy , he always risks having to sit through inanity such as what we recently saw in films like edtv and office space . 
it really is too bad that comedies are so hit- and-miss , because when a moviegoer goes in a theater expecting to be amused , it really is a shame when the alleged comedy fails to deliver . 
but weep not , dear readers , because the latest comedy out of the hollywood movie mill is nothing less than a sure bet . 
austin powers : the spy who shagged me is one of the funniest things i've had the pleasure to see in a long time ; a completely looney , delightful parody of the often pretentious james bond flicks . 
if all comedies ( or even half ; or - - what am i saying ? 
-- even a fifth of them ) could be this consistently hysterical , i would take up residence at my local multiplex . 
even more to this movie's credit is the fact that it is a sequel to the 1997 sleeper/cult hit austin powers : international man of mystery . 
the original came out of nowhere ; it was a low-budget , eccentric movie that many expected to flop like a leslie nielsen parody . 
all of a sudden it was being quoted by teenagers all over america . 
ironically , powers' " yeeeeah baby , yeah ! " 
has almost become an icon of the late 90s . 
thus another installment was inevitable , but it's also undoubtedly welcome . 
the spy who shagged me is one of the most unrestrained , over- the-top comedies i have ever seen in my entire life . 
it brings back most of the characters from its predecessor ( even if only briefly ) and adds new ones . 
austin powers ( mike myers ) , a swinging hipster from the 60s transported into the 90s has to go back to his own time to get back his mojo ( oh , you'll figure it out ) , which dr . evil ( meyers again ) has stolen . 
he enlists the help of a gorgeous secret agent felicity shagwell ( now that his prior sidekick vanessa has been properly disposed of in a hilarious opening sequence ) , played without much distinguishable gusto by heather graham and together they go back to the 60s to defeat dr . evil yet again . 
surprisingly , the real star is dr . evil rather than austin . 
he gets most of the screen time because he was so popular in the first movie . 
perhaps this is true because he is portrayed and written so affectionately . 
instead of being the scheming , villainous mad scientist we might expect from a character like this he is a bumbling , often sweet mad scientist wannabe . 
the spy who shagged me has much of the same stuff we saw in the original , but that's okay by me because the original left us wanting more . 
by the time that one was over we haven't had nearly our share of shag jokes , crude puns and powers' antics and this sequel satisfies our appetites . 
even by its conclusions , i'm still not sure i've had my fill of bits like " do you smoke after sex ? " 
 " i don't know , baby , i never looked . " 
this may seem awfully immature of me , but understand that the austin powers series , unlike most of the crap hollywood feeds us these days , is genuinely funny . 
i don't know if i've ever laughed harder at any movie than i did during the jerry springer send up or the indubitably hilarious " just the two of us " rendition by dr . evil and his new miniature clone named " mini-me " . 
i don't have any pretensions that this is particularly smart social satire or anything of the sort . 
indeed there is little beyond the joy a viewer feels when he sees something that is able to entertain him as much as this movie did . 
but as far as i'm concerned , that is enough . 
 ? 1999 eugene novikov &#137 ; 
almost a full decade before steven spielberg's saving private ryan asked whether a film could be both " anti war " and " pro-soldier " , john irvin's hamburger hill proved it could . 
lost in the inundation of critical acclaim that greeted oliver stone's platoon , this excellent film was dismissed as " too militaristic " . 
it's hard to understand exactly why---unless irvin , in assembling his motley collection of young men who for predictable ( and often naive ) reasons " chose to show up " for the vietnam debacle , ---has refused to present us with the stone killer , drug-stoked psycho and ruthless opportunist who have become to vietnam war epics what " the polack , the hillbilly and the kid from brooklyn " became to wwii movies . 
hamburger hill , based on a true story , is not an easy film to watch . 
there is a scene that will have graying anti-war activists squirming in their seats , or moved to genuine tears . 
and the climactic final assault on the " hill " in question is visually confusing . 
gristly realities are presented in brief flashes , as if the brain dared not acknowledged what it had encountered . 
and in the mud and smoke officer and enlistee , veteran and " newbie " , black soldier and white , become almost indistinguishable from each other , as they do in the chaos of actual combat . 
the acting throughout is solid with an absolutely stellar performance rendered by courtney b . vance as doc--in a role that will have many flatly disbelieving that this is same actor they cheered as " seaman jones " in mctiernan's red october . 
if you've seen private ryan , you owe it to yourself to see hamburger hill--if only to determine that the all the valour and horror of spielberg's vision was as present in the ashau valley as it was at omaha beach . 
in these days of overlong movies ( meet joe black , the thin red line , the mask of zorro ) it is a shame that films like waking ned devine can't be longer than a paltry 90 minutes . 
this is just a cute movie , even through its mildly risque subject matter . 
old friends jackie ( bannen ) and michael ( kelley ) try to find the lottery winner ( they deduce must live in their dinky town of about 60 ) so that they might kiss up to him and share the winnings . 
through process of elimination , they find that it must be lovable old ned devine , who they find sitting in front of his tv , clutching the winning lottery ticket in his cold dead hand . 
what results is thuroughly amusing , as jackie tries to convince his wife that not claiming it would be wrong , and that they could really benefit . 
after all , old ned won't miss it . 
rather than divulge the later twists and turns , i'll stop here merely pointing out that jackie and michael get into all sorts of trouble in their little sleepy irish villiage . 
bannen and kelly are a perfect pair . 
one slightly stout , the other as thin as a rail . 
both getting on in years , they make such a cute pair of old codgers . 
waking ned devine may even be seen as a " full monty " for the geriatric set , especially since kelly gets buff-o for one amusing scene . 
waking ned devine is by no means perfect , but it is so sincere and touching that it looks so much better than most films . 
the performances by everyone in the town are great , particularly the two leads . 
there is one twist at the end which i find unnecessary , but it hardly ruins the picture . 
writer/director kirk jones should be held up as an example to all those hollywood screenwriters . 
scripts as creative and endearing as this should be the norm , not the exception . 
perhaps it makes us appreciate this wonderful film even more . 
had i held off on my year's best/worst list for another day , waking ned devine ( officially released in late november of 98 ) surely would have graced the short group of the year's finest films . 
it is light , but thought provoking and sweet . 
i can't think of anyone who shouldn't see ( or wouldn't enjoy ) this film . 
dark city is such a rare treat : it ? s a stunning , hyperkinetic vision of a place where our reality is fused with noir , science fiction and the darkest nights in manhattan and london . 
to boot , it is accompanied by an intense , well written and thoughtful story . 
movies of this caliber and idea aren ? t made too often , and it ? s unfortunate that i waited this long to see it . 
alex proyas , who ? s previous film the crow looked good but couldn ? t cover up the terrible acting or story , here shows a near masterpiece ; a combination of metropolis , edward hopper and phillip marlowe , fused seemlessly . 
at times it moves beyond film into artwork . 
it is the story of ? strangers ? , aliens from another planet ( and we know they ? re aliens because they shave their heads and wear overcoats ? one of the detractions of the film ) who experiment on humans to discover what makes them live , what makes up our ? soul ? . 
these aliens are superior to humans because they have mastered the ? ultimate technology ? of shaping matter with their mind , called ? tuning . 
they are aided by a human scientist , played by kiefer sutherland , who has ? betrayed his kind ? and at the start of the film watches as the entire city stops at exactly midnight . 
during this time , john murdoch , played swiftly by rufus sewell , wakes in a bathtub in a room with a swinging overhead light ( a terrific visual effect - not only is murdoch confused , but so is the audience ) . 
without a memory and a strange guilt that he may be a killer , he receives a phone call to flee , as the strangers are after him . 
i don ? t want to proceed to much further with the explanation of the story ; one of the pleasures of the film is watching it develop , in a way regaining murdoch ? s ? identity ? along with him . 
it ? s a pleasure to watch the characters develop through the cinematography . 
murdoch ? s wife , anna , is introduced through a stunning beam of light : she is a lounge singer who sings into a bright spotlight . 
shadows , outlines of men in hats watch , as she gently curves through the shine . 
we see the outline of her body from behind , an hourglass , as she sings a slow , rhythmic song . 
a great entrance . 
however , a film such as this is only successful if the morals and themes behind it are strong enough to leave the viewer satisfied . 
the city is nice to look at , but if it ? s a poor story then it ? s not worth watching . 
blade runner was popular not only because it ? s visuals , but it ? s story and themes were thought out and provoked strong response from the audience . 
it is discussed it and argued , therefore a success . 
other science fiction films of recent times , such as the fifth element , are nice to look at , but are dropped and forgotten because the cookie cutter moral behind them is so flimsy . 
we ? re left with ? love conquers all ? after finishing the fifth element . 
dark city is not so easily explained away . 
as the strangers discovered , locating the human soul and discovering what makes us survive is not such an easy task . 
where is reality ? 
dark city is certainly the best science fiction film of the 90 ? s , and ranks along with the best made in the 80s , such as blade runner and the two aliens films . 
perhaps it ? s the best of the both decades ; it had the darkness of the aliens films , as well as the visuals and compelling story of blade runner , but moved beyond , i think , because the themes behind it were much stronger . 
anyone who wants to make an argument for better science fiction films please feel free to write , i ? d love to hear it . 
anyone who saw alan rickman's finely-realized performances in truly madly deeply and sense and sensibility will be unsurprised that the actor-turned-director is a bit of a poet at heart . 
however , for those who recall him only as the maniacal villain of die hard and robin hood : prince of thieves , this recognition may be something of a shock . 
nevertheless , " poetic " is an excellent term to describe rickman's feature debut as a director , the winter guest . 
the film has a simple , unhurried rhythm that uses all of the available elements to fashion a successful whole . 
the result is an occasionally haunting , sometimes magical , and always insightful human drama . 
the winter guest isn't about resolving plot threads and advancing a story line ; it's about exploring relationships and examining life in all of its stages . 
the winter guest does not tell a traditional tale , nor does it ascribe to a conventional narrative structure ? there is no real beginning or end . 
instead , we are given an opportunity to observe one day in the lives of eight humans . 
they represent both sexes , multiple generations , and a variety of relationships ? male and female ; young , middle-aged , and elderly ; friends , would-be lovers , and kin . 
we see expectations fulfilled and disappointed , emotional boundaries eroded , and truths unveiled . 
there is comedy and tragedy . 
most importantly , much of what transpires during the course of the winter guest will find an echo in our own lives ? in this fiction can be found much truth . 
the setting is small town in scotland on the coldest day of the year . 
it's so frigid that the sea has begun to freeze over . 
the onshore wind cuts like a knife and snow blankets the beach , giving the terrain an alien appearance . 
it is against this backdrop that the relationships of the film are captured . 
there are four pairings , and , although there is some interaction between the different twosomes , the winter guest's focus is on the dynamics internal to each relationship . 
the first , meatiest pairing is that of elspeth ( phylida law ) and her recently-widowed daughter , frances ( emma thompson ) . 
these two have a stormy relationship . 
they love each other deeply , but both are stubborn and willful , and neither is willing to admit that they need the other . 
much of their interaction is argumentative , but , during the course of a long walk to the frozen shoreline , they come to an unspoken understanding of how much each means to the other . 
frances' adult son , alex ( gary hollywood ) , is a lonely young man who has been caring for his mother since the death of his father . 
on this day , he meets a girl , nita ( arlene cockburn ) , who has secretly been spying on him for weeks . 
although their first encounter is antagonistic ( she throws a snowball at him ) , both quickly become aware of an undeniable attraction . 
once they retire to a place where they can be alone , however , things don't go exactly as planned . 
lily ( sheila reid ) and chloe ( sandra voe ) are a couple of old friends who are frequent funeral attendees . 
death is a topic of endless fascination for them , perhaps because they are so close to it , and they spend their spare time scanning the obituaries , looking for the next funeral or cremation in the area . 
it doesn't matter whether or not they knew the deceased . 
it's the ceremony that they're interested in . 
sam ( douglas murphy ) and tom ( sean biggerstaff ) , a pair of schoolboy chums , are spending this cold february day cutting classes and hanging out at the beach , horsing around , building a small fire for warmth , and walking on the frozen water . 
unlike lily and chloe , these two have their entire lives ahead of them . 
they are young enough to still believe in magic , but old enough to recognize that the process of crossing into adulthood robs life of the simple joy that only children can experience . 
the acting is strong and believable . 
the mixture of veteran performers and first-timers is effective , with the most successful choice being the casting of real-life mother and daughter phylida law and emma thompson in the most prominent roles . 
there is a chemistry in their interaction that would be hard to replicate with two different , non-related actors . 
and , of course , the physical resemblance makes it that much easier to accept elspeth and frances as parent and child . 
the winter guest began its life as a stage play in 1995 , with rickman as the director . 
four of the film's principals , phylida law , arlene cockburn , sheila reid , and sandra voe , appeared in the theatrical version before moving to the film . 
unlike several recent motion pictures adapted from plays , the winter guest has been successfully opened up . 
the rough , bleak scottish countryside becomes as much of a character as any of the eight humans . 
in fact , considering how important the climate is to every relationship under rickman's microscope , it could be argued that this is the single most important element of the movie . 
if you appreciate character studies , the winter guest is a solid effort with enough power to stay with you after you have left the theater . 
i want to correct what i wrote last year in my retrospective of david lean's war picture . 
i still think that " the bridge on the river kwai " doesn't deserve being the number 13 in the american film institute's list of the 100 greatest american movies . 
and i think that " 12 angry men " , " witness for the prosecution " and " paths of glory " would have been better choices for the oscar for the best picture of 1957 . 
but i can't deny the importance of " the bridge on the river kwai " - cinematically and in its contents . 
the film is set in burma in 1943 . 
a batallion of british soldiers in japanese war captivity is forced by the japanese to build a strategically momentous railway bridge over the river kwai . 
but the british commanding officer , colonel nicholson ( alec guinness ) , insists - corresponding to the geneva conventions - that his officers needn't work as simple workmen . 
struggling toughly , col . nicholson forces the japanese commandant , col . saito ( sessue hayakawa ) , to give way in this respect . 
afterwards col . nicholson assiduously commits himself for the building of the bridge . 
he considers it an opportunity to raise his men's morale , and he wants to prove superior british capabilities to the japanese . 
but the british high command sends a few soldiers who shall destroy the bridge , among them the american shears ( william holden ) - an escapee from the japanese prison camp - and the british major warden ( jack hawkins ) . . . 
a flaw of the picture is the clich ? d characterization of the japanese people . 
they are presented as if they were intellectually inferior to the british - as if the japanese were incapable of building a bridge . 
and the film doesn't consistently question the military spirit as kubrick does in " paths of glory " . 
lean seems rather fascinated by the military hierarchies . 
this is also perceptible in the conversations between col . nicholson and col . saito . 
in this regard it is symptomatic that shears , who doubts the military logic , is presented as a somehow unpleasant person . 
the audience is supposed to applaud col . nicholson's perseverance concerning the question if his officers shall work on the bridge or not . 
the spectators are supposed to neglect the risks col . nicholson takes for his men . 
 ( the plot by-passes these risks . ) 
that means , the picture isn't perfect . 
but it has a lot of virtues as well . 
 " the bridge on the river kwai " shows the " madness " of war and what it can produce in people's minds . 
it shows how colonel nicholson becomes possessed by the idea of being a hero and that others ( like shears ) get cynics . 
and lean's film is an interesting study of characters with clashing interests . 
these points and the sometimes ironic dialogue make this film an anti-war film ( despite inconsistencies in the treatment of this theme ) . 
david lean's direction is really effective and atmospherically perfect . 
his film is highly suspenseful , especially in its dramatic ( if not wholly plausible ) showdown . 
the film is also well-photographed and has an apt score . 
alec guinness does a magnificent job of bringing col . nicholson to life and making him such an interesting character . 
the other actors deliver fine performances as well . 
i like this extraordinary film despite its weaknesses . 
 ( c ) karl rackwitz ( klein k ? ris , germany , 1999 ) 
recently i read 4 reviews of pleasantville-one from entertainment weekly , one from a newsgroup , and two from different online resources . 
each review compared this film to the truman show . 
why ? 
the only reason people compared pleasantville to truman is due to the fact that their lives are on television . 
other than that , the two movies are completely different from each other . 
reviewers seem to love to pick one movie ( i . e . 
the truman show ) , obsess over it , and make it a guideline for other movies . 
when pleasantville and edtv opened , all critics seemed to treat the two films like they were subjects of king truman . 
the same goes for the thin red line , as well . 
when it opened in decemeber , probably 98% of reviews compared it to stephen spielberg's saving private ryan , giving thin line no chance whatsoever . 
critics loved private ryan so much , that they automatically decided no movie is good enough to reach its standards . 
this is why i think pleasantville was underrated . 
if the truman show had never been made , pleasantville probably would have received better reviews , done better at the box office , and would be remembered after it's long been on the video store shelves . 
sure , it wasn't perfect , and it wasn't very believeable , but neither was the wizard of oz or star wars , and there stands two of the most prominent movies in history . 
with the exception of don knotts as the annoying " tv repairman " the film is cast perfectly : the ice storm's tobey maguire is david in real life ; he watches the old 50's sitcom " pleasantville " to escape from his feuding parents . 
his twin sister , jen ( reese witherspoon ) is a popular slut who ( steriotypically ) smokes and wears revealing clothes . 
but what makes her character believeable is the dialogue-those excessive 90's terms such as " like " , " whatever " , and " cool " make her sound like the total dimwit she's supposed to be . 
the twins , with a little help from a tv repairman ( casting don knotts in this role was obviously a cameo-esque cast rather than a true acting one ) , are sucked into pleasantville by a magical new remote . 
their new parents , played by william h . macy and joan allen , are perfect in every way . 
their new names are bud and mary sue , and right away they start to corrupt the town of pleasantville . 
after the siblings fit comfortably in their new roles , the movie begins to take form . 
it's just like watching a sitcom in itself ; you don't want it to end . 
 " mary sue " has sex with her date , the school basketball champion ; when he tells all his friends about it , they stop preforming perfectly at basketball , and things start to take color . 
soon we learn that these people don't know how to express true emotions , and when they learn to do so , they eventually turn into color . 
this eventually sparks a racial war between the " coloreds " and the " black & whites . " 
entertainment weekly reviewer lisa schwarzbaum claims the movie has , " none of the depth , poignance , and brilliance of the truman show . . . " 
yes , the truman show was maybe a little more intelligent . 
but the racial setting-intensified by the forcing of the coloreds to sit in the upper box of the courtroom-certainly classifies as deep , considering it's what i least expected . 
gary ross did not try to create an intelligent , award masterpiece-he just tries to convey moral messages within his work . 
take for example big and dave , his past films . 
big-be careful what you wish for . 
dave-good or bad lying is still lying . 
did these movies win big awards ? 
no , but they won the heart of millions . 
pleasantville could have done that too , if it wasn't for snotty reviewers who set precedents with preceeding films . 
pleasantville : a- ad2am " i almost lost my nose . . . and 
i like it . 
i like breathing through it . " 
-jack nicholson , chinatown 
note : some may consider portions of the following text to be spoilers . 
be forewarned . 
the teaser trailers for my best friend's wedding scarsely gave reason for hope - it looked like the sort of goofy , light-hearted comedy than might put julia roberts back in the limelight , but little more ; i'd frankly rarely seen a trailer place such an emphasis on people falling over for laughs so often . 
it was then to both my surprise and my delight to find that my best friend's wedding was such a success - a strong , bouyant romantic-comedy with some decidedly unconventionally quirky comic aspects , featuring a triumphant performance from ms . roberts . 
the heroine of my best friend's wedding is julianne potter ( julia roberts ) , a successful new york restaurant critic , and we open the film with a whimsical revelation to her editor george downes ( rupert everett ) that years ago , she had made a pact with her dear best friend and ex-lover michael o'neal ( dermot mulroney ) , a sports writer , that if they both hadn't married by the time they reached 28 , they had promised to marry each other . 
both julianne and michael are both single , of course , and when george inquires about michael's age , julianne realizes that he's mere weeks away from his 28th birthday , and is quite distressed when she receives a phone call from michael later that day . 
however , she finds herself even more distraught when michael's call is in regards to his impending marriage to heiress kimmy wallace ( cameron diaz ) , and when he asks julianne to fly down to chicago for the wedding , julianne suddenly realizes that she loves michael , and resolves to break up the wedding and steal the groom by any means necessary . 
the setup for my best friend's wedding , then , is a fairly conventional one , and in many ways the film's storyline is formulaic - but only to a certain extent : the film was directed by p . j . hogan , whose first feature , muriel's wedding , had quite an offbeat tone for a traditional uplifting ugly-duckling story , and the same holds true for my best friend's wedding , which confidently combines traditional romantic-comedy elements with a really eccentric sense of humour . 
the film is innundated with sly mischievousness which seems clearly the influence of mr . hogan . 
for example , there's a heartfelt , emotional exchange between julianne and michael late in the film - with a trio of teenagers , inhaling helium and sounding every bit like alvin and the chipmunks , harmonizing in the background . 
my best friend's wedding opens with an inspired opening credit sequence which sets the tone for the film , and there are scenes where actors spontaneously burst into song to good comic effect - it could almost be argued that this film is nearly as much of a musical as woody allen's everyone says i love you ; i'd even assert it's a more successful one . 
my best friend's wedding keeps breaking conventionality with its characters as well . 
in a typical romantic-comedy , kimmy would be portrayed as a snooty , conniving ice queen , and the audience would be cheering for julianne to rescue michael from her grasps ; this film is smarter than that - here , kimmy is sweet , sincere , and innocent ; julianne even admits at one point that had she not resolved to utterly destroy kimmy's life , she'd actually like her too . 
the george character is almost a staple of recent film - the homosexual male friend of the heroine who acts as a confidant and provides the guiding voice of reason - but in my best friend's wedding , he gets to have a playful , mischievous and charming personality . 
throughout the film , the formulaisms one often sees is romantic-comedy are given little twists , and the result is a film which is compelling all the way to its somewhat unorthodox conclusion . 
there is a lot of smart writing in the well-paced screenplay by ronald bass ; we're given four interesting , vivid , and likeable characters , with some good dialogue and some genuinely charming and touching moments . 
my best friend's wedding marks a strong career rebound for julia roberts , who turns in a top-notch , confident and reassured performance as julianne . 
this isn't the sort of role one usually associates with ms . roberts - the julianne character's neurotic , fumbling characteristics are more in line with a meg ryan role - but ms . roberts works wonderfully in the film and demonstrates her aptitude at comedy here , remaining compelling and empathetic to the audience , if not entirely sympathetic , even when her deeds done to destroy the wedding plans of her best friend are less than honourable . 
even better than ms . roberts though is cameron diaz , who turns in a shining performance in my best friend's weddding . 
with a smile which lights up the screen , she effectively conveys kimmy's insecurity and utter sweetness in an endearing manner , and never hits a false note in the film . 
she even sings - i won't soon forget her charming serenade of " i just don't know what to do with myself " . 
rupert everett is given a very juicy role as george , and he makes the most of it with a hilarious turn which makes his character perhaps the most vivid and most memorable in the film . 
his george is a bit of a devilish rogue , entirely affable , and mr . everett's performance is a delight to watch ; he's clearly having fun , and his joy is infectuous . 
dermot mulroney is adequate in a thankless role - unlike the other characters in the film , he's not given a lot to do , but there is a genuine onscreen chemistry between ms . roberts and mr . mulroney , and consequently the longstanding friendship between his michael character and the julianne character always seemed completely authentic . 
when julia roberts' lustre began to fade , and she was usurped from her title as " america's sweetheart " by sandra bullock , i thought it was a canny career move on her part to take supporting roles in prestige projects like michael collins and everyone says i love you to raise her profile . 
while that didn't quite work out , it's near-certain that her successful return to the genre which made her a big star back in 1990 , the romantic-comedy , will once again raise her ante in the hollywood game . 
my best friend's wedding marks a return to form for ms . roberts , and cements p . j . hogan's reputation as a skilled director of comedy . 
robocop is an intelligent science fiction thriller and social satire , one with class and style . 
the film , set in old detroit in the year 1991 , stars peter weller as murphy , a lieutenant on the city's police force . 
1991's detroit suffers from rampant crime and a police department run by a private contractor ( security concepts inc . ) whose employees ( the cops ) are threatening to strike . 
to make matters worse , a savage group of cop-killers has been terrorizing the city . 
on murphy's first day of duty , after his transfer from another precinct , these cop-killers brutally murder him by shooting off his limbs one by one . 
 ( orion pictures had to edit this extremely graphic scene in order to get an r rating from the m . p . a . a . ) 
after the emergency room staff at the hospital cannot save murphy and declare him clinically dead , s . c . i . 
recruits his remains for their new " robocop " program . 
using the remains of murphy's body as a foundation , their scientists build a cyborg , made of both flesh and metal . 
the cyborg ( robocop ) is half human ( murphy ) and half robot ; the s . c . i . 
engineers have erased murphy's memory and replaced it with a computer program ( or so they think ) . 
with his lightning quick reflexes , immense strength , and impenetrable armor , s . c . i . 
envisions robocop as an indestructible super-cop : the solution to detroit's problems . 
the remainder of the plot follows robocop's crime-foiling and vengeance on his murderers . 
as a science fiction action-thriller , robocop is extremely effective . 
dutch director paul verhoeven combines gritty action with suspense , shocking gore , and spectacular special effects . 
several sequences in the film , such as the one in which robocop employs his extremely precise aim to stop a rapist , are destined to become cult-classics . 
because robocop is so visually and emotionally rousing , it demands to be seen on a large screen with an audience--in other words , in a movie theater . 
although the special effects and action are exciting , they do not by themselves set robocop apart from other films in the genre . 
rather , robocop stands out for its accurate and biting satire of american society . 
the movie makes a mockery of the star wars defense initiative , terrorism , board games , and television news broadcasts with air-headed anchors . 
these news broadcasts , which are exceptionally clever , recur periodically throughout the movie and help to provide comic relief from the intense action and gore . 
the satire in robocop , however , is almost as frightening in its own way as the suspense and blood . 
1990's america , as portrayed in the film , may seem far fetched but is in actuality ( i think ) only a slight exaggeration of the current state of american society . 
the humorous satire in robocop is simultaneously credible and absurd . 
verhoeven adroitly balances the satirical comedy with the gory action to create an entertaining and enlightening piece of science fiction/social commentary . 
unfortunately , robocop possesses several flaws which prevent it from qualifying as a classic within the genre . 
the movie lacks the lasting impact of such films as the road warrior , the terminator , and aliens . 
robocop's main problem , aside from its dumb title , is that it does not sufficiently develop murphy's character . 
we never learn the degree to which murphy ( as robocop ) is human and the degree to which he is a robot . 
does murphy have any human spirit or free will left , or is he merely a computer following a program ? 
the script halfheartedly raises these issues but then abandons them in its climactic flurry of gory action . 
moreover , it almost completely ignores the question ( and tragedy ) of denying a man his right to die in favor of turning him into a machine . 
robocop also contains several bothersome loose-ends . 
as you watch robocop , you experience deja vu ; you feel as if you have seen the film before . 
in many respects , robocop is reminiscent of several other films , including the terminator , return of the jedi , and even death wish . 
however , to its credit , robocop easily has enough originality and unique personality to avoid becoming a cheap rip-off . 
probably the most popular and praised film of all time , turned out to be a primitive and predictable costume drama with a dose of social criticism . 
everyone knows about the greatest and most famous shipping disaster of all time . 
and the actual catastrophe is masterfully crafted by director james cameron , combining visual -and sound effects , he re-creates the frightening atmosphere of the sinking ship in the middle of nowhere . 
i liked very much the emotional and brutal contrast between the first and the third classes . 
while their cabin is slowly filling up with water , a mother is telling her children a fairytail -- " . . and 
they lived happily ever after . . " . 
and then the ship goes down and the few survivors are left alone under the stars and the chilling air . 
however , the actual disaster is happening almost at the end of the movie , while the first two hours are just beautiful sets and bad dialogues . 
in the present day , the rms titanic is explored by brock lovett ( bill paxton ) , a treasure seeker looking for the coeur de la mer diamond , lost during the sinking . 
somewhere inside the ship , lovett's crew discover a sketchbook of an artist long dead . 
here , in the shape of a nude young lady , is a window into the distant age of 1912 . 
lovett is extremely surprised when he get's a phone call from rose dawson , claiming that she is a model . 
she is immediately helicoptered onto the vessel , and she gets the first glimpse of the fated ship in 80 years . 
as the memories come flooding back , she once again becomes rose dewitt buketer ( kate winslet ) , the fianc ? e of wealthy cal hockley ( billy zane ) and daughter of ruth dewitt bukater ( frances fisher ) . 
on board there are rich and poor , everyone trust in the ship's designer ( jonathan hyde ) and her master , captain e . j . 
smith ( bernard hill ) . 
on board the ship , rose , unhappy and restless meets jack ( leonardo dicaprio ) - a young american artist , poor , brave and attractive . 
a love story slowly emerges and the two lovers must not only experience the difference between the social classes , but also face the greatest power on earth - death . 
cameron could as well have called his picture " the never ending love " or " love at first sight " , as he concentrates all his energy on the young couple , and not on the disaster itself . 
the plot is anything but original and the dialogues sometimes resemble a television soap-opera . 
the director doesn't even try to overcome his empty script . 
because of its primitive and predictable plot , titanic is totally depending on the visuals that truly are breathtaking . 
russel carpenter's rich , majestic and incredibly detailed cinematography is certainly award-worthy . 
everything from art direction to visual and sound effects are a top notch . 
but it doesn't help much when the costumes are more convincing than the actors who wear them . 
the actors are not to blame , because their characters are more like caricatures , in other words - fake . 
jack is a man with many talents : he is a talented artist , handsome , brave , honest , strong , funny . . . you 
name it . 
he doesn't have any dark side , he doesn't make any mistakes , that for a second would make him human . 
jack is perfect , but he is - poor . 
on the other hand we have cal . 
he is a bastard that treats rose as an odalisque and not as his wife-to-be . 
he lacks everything jack possesses , but he is -- rich . 
this childish contrast between the social classes is one of those things that makes titanic nothing more than a mediocre picture . 
cameron knows precisely what we want to see . 
his film therefore contains certain minimums to draw an audience - attractive actors , a " tragic love story " , beautiful visuals ( including expensive special effects ) , a dose of social criticism , a fascinating historical event ( we love true stories ) and last , but not least - an incredible media support , which proclaimed an average picture the " greatest film of all time " . 
on the outside titanic looks perfect , but behind that sparkling curtain of incredible visuals - is emptiness - nothing to think about . 
the main weakness of this film , which ironically became its success , is simplicity . 
cameron enables our basic and if you wish - primitive emotions : love , hate , fear and helplessness . 
everyone understands the power of love and the threat to our beautiful couple is likewise imaginable - a sinking ship . 
titanic is a typical hollywood production , totally and completely dependent on visual perfection to hide its primitive plot . 
it's a good picture , but absolutely not a masterpiece . 
it's among hundreds and thousands good films released every year , not better or worse than the average american film . 
cinema has been around for about a hundred years now . ? 
it's not my job to recap this century every time i talk about a new film , but i'd like to think that i'm beginning to understand the art more as i watch more films from before my time . 
recently , i've seen the films of hitchcock , capra , fellini , godard , kurosawa , chaplin , lang , and many others . 
 ? those men were talented artists , and their films reflect their genius . ? 
they are likely to be remembered for . 
 . 
 . 
well , quite a while . ? 
i like this film , too . ? 
yes , it's a disaster-slash-action movie . ? 
true , its budget is a lot more money than i'll ever see in my lifetime . ? 
and there's not a doubt in my mind that the only reason it was conceived was to make a lot of money . ? 
in fact , i bet the producers of armageddon would have worked towards a lousy film , had they thought it would've been more profitable . 
i certainly don't care what their intentions were , because michael bay ( the rock ) is such a skilled director that i doubt he'd ever make a film that is difficult to sit through . 
of course , skillful direction doesn't complete the package , but the rest of armageddon manages to keep everything together . 
the story is well-thought out ( and perfectly paced to provide for an abundance of action sequences that never feel out of place ) , the acting is terrific , the script is sharp , and -- get this -- there are characters . 
yes , you read that right . 
armageddon actually has characters you can care about ! 
if you don't like this film , then you have a problem with the genre itself : armageddon is as good as a film like this can be . 
if you've seen deep impact , then you know the basic framework for the story . 
it turns out that an asteroid the size of texas is going to strike the earth eighteen days from the start of the film . 
so , it's up to the u . s . government to stop it . 
 ( why the u . s . is always exclusively saddled with these problems is never fully investigated . ) 
their plan -- to send a group of experienced oil drillers up to the asteroid , drill down several hundred feet , and detonate a nuclear warhead within . 
the head driller is harry stamper ( bruce willis ) . 
his group of men is a colorful bunch , including a . j . 
 ( ben affleck ) , chick ( will patton ) , and rockhound ( steve buscemi ) . 
there's also an interesting triangle formed between a . j . , harry , and grace ( liv tyler ) , who is harry's daughter . 
a . j . 
and grace are , of course , romantically intertwined , and dad isn't too happy with the situation . 
it's absurd to wish for a complicated story in an event movie or a special effects movie or whatever it is you'd like to call armageddon . 
it's not about story -- it's about viscera and action , and thrills-a-minute , and all that stuff . 
it's incidental , really , that the story is cohesive and even remotely believable , because most people will be too wrapped up in the explosions to give two seconds' thought to what actually happens . 
but bay is the one to congratulate in this case , for he has made a film so entertaining and so visually sharp that i doubt any director could have done it better . 
i think most of the budget went to cameras alone , because bay films every action sequence from about thirty or forty different angles . 
take the spectacular opening scene , for instance , in which a meteor shower obliterates new york . 
a meteor flies out of the sky and crashes into a building , which sends fireballs erupting into the air and cars spinning like tops upon other cars . 
the action itself might take five seconds in real life , but bay edits so quickly that we get the same scene in six different ways . 
i like his quick-edit style , because it's abrasive and exhausting to watch . 
it's also very loud , and obnoxiously noisy at times . 
but it's fun to be obnoxious sometimes . 
the special effects in this film put every other 1998 blockbuster to shame . 
deep impact , visually , has absolutely nothing on armageddon , and to offer a comparison between the quality of this film and godzilla is simply laughable . 
special effects are very important in a film like this : if they're not good , then the image is not convincing , and the film doesn't work . 
everything here looks bright and explosive -- from the little meteors bursting through skyscrapers , all the way to the shots of the earth through the jutting rocks on the ominously approaching asteroid . 
the effects that don't look totally real are still a pleasure to behold , and i credit everyone involved for creating the first blockbuster so nice-looking that it actually qualifies as art . 
of course , all of this would add up to little more than an above-average light show , if i didn't get the feeling that bay cares as much about his characters as he does about his action . 
the film is two and a half hours long , and not all of that is spent submerged in numbing action . 
much of the film is dedicated to developing the various characters' subplots . 
i won't suggest that these are complex characters , but their problems are real , and the emotions aren't put forth in a sentimental and overbearing way . 
in fact , there are three or four scenes here that had me pretty choked up , and that's a lot more than i can say about deep impact , which was banking on the feel-good parts of its story . 
bruce willis is terrific , and i'm glad to see him bigger than life again ( recent turns in films like mercury rising have been very disappointing ) . 
tyler and affleck are great together , and make a convincing couple -- all of the scenes between them work on a comfortable level . 
patton , who is a magnificent actor , thankfully is not wasted here , and the minor subplot revolving around his ex-wife and son is very moving . 
the comic relief from buscemi and peter stormare ( who plays a crazy russian astronaut ) is nifty , and keeps the film lively and funny . 
i wasn't challenged to think real hard while watching armageddon , and i don't mind too much . 
but the film doesn't insult my intelligence -- it's pitched perfectly to entertain , which is what all it really wants to do . 
it's not mindless and escapist , but well-crafted cinema . 
it might have been created for the wrong reasons , but men like michael bay have my respect for showing me that they are interested in making something good , in spite of the producers and the budget . 
i'm not saying that films like this are risky moves . 
what i am saying is that armageddon is a big , loud , expensive motion picture that reminds me that art often comes in the strangest of forms . 
it's no secret in the motion picture industry that the relationship between a script and the actors involved often makes or breaks a movie at the box office . 
a poorly-written script can be bested by a superb acting corps , and a well-written piece can be mangled by a group of amateurs . 
in directing his latest action-comedy , director brett ratner ( money talks ) takes a relatively mediocre piece of standup comedy and turns it into a funny as all get-out buddy cop movie . 
in addition , rush hour serves as a first-class example of directing a movie with conservative attitude - a feature that is sure to draw in crowds of all types . 
the two lead names share equal screen time here , mostly because they spend it together . 
jackie chan , in his first completely american production , makes an impressive debut by mixing dialogue with martial arts . 
the other martial arts flick from a few weeks ago , knock off , stands no chance against the content of this one . 
chan manages to make every fight scene exude grace and poise , and there's no doubt that a large percentage of video sales for this movie will come from viewers who couldn't believe their eyes the first time . 
chris tucker , on the opposite side , relates a hilarious comedic approach which smoothes out the rough edges to chan's performance . 
he works perfectly with the script , and it's quite likely he lent scribe jim kouf a hand with some of his lines . 
almost essential to the action genre , the plot is nonexistent . 
we're quickly introduced to detective james carter ( tucker ) is a maverick officer for the lapd . 
cut forward to another scene where the daughter ( julia hsu ) of the american chinese consul ( tzi ma ) is kidnapped by a gang of swarthy characters . 
the fbi is quick to the rescue , but the consul insists that one of his men , detective inspector lee ( chan ) , be brought on the case to help . 
the fbi resists , but then requests that lapd send a man over to babysit the chinese detective . 
it's here that carter and lee hook up , and the two unwittingly solve the case while the fbi rushes in to back them up . 
rattner does a fine job of going the extra mile to get his movie to move a step up , but it doesn't quite reach the top tier of action-comedies like last year's grosse pointe blank . 
there are moments where the plot strays too far off the straight line it sticks almost exclusively to , and if not for the comedic interactions between tucker and chan , this might be a major drawback . 
also , some supporting characters are almost entirely along for the ride , and others are there simply to look menacing . 
however , none gives a standoffish performance and they mostly mesh into the background . 
almost every member of the cast displays some reservation at one point or another - whether it's tucker's toned-down routine or chan's tight rein on his action sequences - and that contributes greatly to this being a watchable movie for all types . 
a recommendable visit to the theater , indeed . 
when andy leaves for cowboy camp , his mother holds a yard sale and scrounges in his room for old toys . 
one of these toys is wheezy , a penguin with a broken squeaker . 
woody ( tom hanks ) saddles up andy's dog and rides out into the yard to rescue wheezy . 
woody succeeds in his mission , but doesn't make it back to the house before al , the unscrupulous owner of al's toy barn , recognizes woody as a rare collector's item and steals him . 
buzz lightyear ( tim allen ) leads hamm ( john ratzenberger ) , mr . potato head ( don rickles ) , slinky dog ( jim varney ) , and rex ( wallace shawn ) into the city to find their friend . 
meanwhile woody discovers the reason he was kidnapped . 
al has collected every piece of merchandising from the 1950's tv puppet show " woody's round-up " except for a woody doll . 
now that the collection is complete , al plans to sell woody and his round-up gang-bullseye the horse , jessie the cowgirl ( joan cusack ) , and stinky pete the old prospector ( kelsey grammer ) -to a toy museum in japan . 
the gang is happy about the move ; they've been in storage for years waiting for woody . 
if woody doesn't go with them , they'll be closed up in a dark box again , possibly forever . 
trying to convince him to stay with them , jessie tells woody how she was abandoned when her owner grew up , and woody realizes that his days as a beloved toy are numbered . 
while woody ponders whether to go to japan or to go home to andy , buzz and the boys invade al's toy barn , where the buzz we know is replaced by another buzz who doesn't know he's a toy . 
the new buzz generates the movie's biggest laughs as he leads the other toys in an assault on " zurg's fortress " ( i . e . , al's apartment building ) . 
the original " toy story " won me over because its central themes reflected a grown-up sensibility rather than the usual this-is-what-we-think-kids-want-to-hear . 
while most kids' movies take the position that every person is special and has an extraordinary destiny to fulfill , in " toy story " buzz discovered that he wasn't special , that he was just like everyone else . 
buzz sank into a suicidal depression , but woody showed buzz that being a toy was worthwhile because a toy is loved and a toy makes a child happy . 
in other words , it's okay to be ordinary if you have love and a purpose in your life . 
most of us probably come to the same conclusion when we realize that we're not space rangers and we're never going to be . 
 " toy story 2 " addresses the question raised by the conclusion drawn by the first movie . 
woody is forced to recognize that andy will grow up and forget him and that he will likely be discarded , abandoned , or sealed up in a dark box in the attic . 
this is another big grown-up theme : everything ends . 
the theme is introduced early in the movie when woody's arm is torn and andy places him on a shelf rather than taking him to cowboy camp . 
on the shelf , woody meets wheezy , who's dusty , broken , and forgotten . 
the other toys are shocked that woody has been " shelved , " and they worry that woody's ride out to the 25-cent box at the yard sale is a suicide attempt . 
after he's stolen , woody has to decide between a long life in a display case and an uncertain future with andy and his pals . 
of course , in spite of the heavy themes " toy story 2 " explores , it's also very funny . 
most of the laughs come from the toys' assault on al's toy barn and on the apartment building . 
the brief substitution of a new , still delusional buzz was a welcome surprise ; i'd wondered how a sequel could be as funny as the original without the pompous attitude buzz displayed in the original . 
most of the vocal performances are first-rate . 
tom hanks stands out for the level of enthusiasm he puts into his work . 
however , one voice-over also stands out as horribly miscast . 
kelsey grammer sounds nothing like an old prospector . 
although he does a lot of voice-over work in commercials and on " the simpsons " ( as sideshow bob ) , grammer only makes slight variations on his own voice . 
he doesn't have the range to pull off a role like stinky pete . 
the animation is even better than in the first . 
especially impressive were the textures of the figures . 
we can now see the difference between flesh and plastic ; in the first movie the people looked just like the toys , but now human skin looks soft and has a slight bluish tint . 
we can also see that bo peep is porcelain . 
as you can tell from the long-winded phrasing common in the merchandising -- " disney and pixar's 'toy story 2' " -- this is pixar's coming out party . 
to celebrate they appended their first project , a hilarious short about two desklamps and a rubber ball , to the beginning of the movie . 
they made the short in 1986 , which is incredible when one considers the relatively primitive level of computer technology available then . 
on the downside , " toy story 2 " follows the formula of the original so closely that the sequel comes off a bit stale , and some sections tend to drag . 
overall , though , i had a great time and found " story 2 " to be a worthy successor to the first " toy story . " 
bottom line : this one really is fun for the whole family ! 
david lynch's " blue velvet " begins and ends with colorful , bright shots of flowers and happy americans mowing their lawns in a seemingly perfect american town . 
however , what lies inside this nominally safe atmosphere is a " strange world " of drug dealers , sadists , and murderers . 
the opening and closing shots are a wonderful contrast to the rest of the gloomy , disturbing film . 
they show not to make assumptions from first glance and that oddness is common in all places under all circumstances . 
odd would be a perfect adjective to describe this film , its characters , its direction , and its story . 
thankfully , the obscurity that " blue velvet " relies on is enough to make this film enjoyable . 
since its elements are so originally weird , you never know what will happen next . 
this is the main goal of a movie ; to be spontaneous and surprising . 
 " blue velvet " miracuously succeeds at this even though it contains mediocre acting . 
lynch creates such a hypnotic world that it is hard to resist his style of story telling . 
the film starts off with the discovery of a severed ear by a college boy ( kyle maclachlan ) . 
from this point maclachlan finds himself involved with a lounge singer ( isabella rossellinia ) who has lost her son and husband to a kidnapping . 
the plot is much more detailed than the aforementioned and this is what makes david lynch's story telling so amazing . 
maclachlan becomes involved in a forbidden relationship , in another relationship that could have been taken straight out of a high school flick , and he is put into the shoes of a drug dealer who has some wild adventures with some wild friends . 
through these multiple stories , maclachlan lives multiple lives and as we follow maclachlan , we are introduced to a variety of interesting subplots . 
lynch masterfully builds these subplots but he does not piece them all together in the very end and make a convenient crowd pleasing conclusion . 
instead he leaves some ambiguity and forces those curious enough to get the real meaning to watch the film several several times . 
lynch has been known to do this with a number of his films meaning he may be too esoteric for some hoping to get a hollywood ending where the good guy gets the girl and everything turns out fine . 
however , for fans of odd difficult indies , " blue velvet " could be just what they are looking for . 
it is very hard to discuss " blue velvet " without discussing the performance of dennis hopper's sadistic frank . 
most of the other actors in the film were not very memorable . 
kyle maclachlan lacked one important aspect for his role , a personality . 
laura dern was consistently annoying . 
but dennis hopper stole every scene he was in . 
his evil character was just plain old frightening in his mannerisms from his obsession to velvet to his incessant breathing from a gas mask . 
frank is a character that comes along once in a blue moon . 
many producers know this and have inevitably begun to typecast hopper as the bad guy . 
just like his villain in " speed " , hopper is over the edge with cursing and screaming every chance he has to speak . 
this harshness is exactly what frank is , so weird and twisted that it is hard not to look at him , even if he theatens you to look away . 
 " blue velvet " has characters and stories you will never see in a movie again . 
for this sole reason it is recommended . 
but also see it to admire lynch's obsession to avoid the norm . 
even if this film is a little too weird for you , it's hard not to congratulate a guy for trying something new and sticking to it . 
if chris farley had strapped some fake mutton-chop sideburns to each side of his head , spoken with a thick irish accent , and tried his damnedest to play it straight , he wouldn't have been nearly as funny as brendan gleeson in " i went down . " 
gleeson , who's not dissimilar to the late " saturday night live " alumnus in terms of physical attributes , plays a character named bunny kelly in this delightful irish film . 
bunny is sent to county cork to " retrieve " one frank grogan for an irish gangster called tom french ( well dressed like all good gangsters should be and menacingly portrayed by tony doyle ) . 
bunny is to accompany git hynes ( peter mcdonald ) , recently released from prison and obligated to tom for disfiguring one of his cronies . 
that tom french is a mean bollocks . 
he wants frank back . 
and a small matter of some ? 25 , 000 that tom's wife was supposed to have given to frank . 
for this he won't break anyone's thumbs . 
maybe . 
inventively and engagingly written by conor mcpherson and directed by paddy breathnach , " i went down " follows the trials and tribulations of git and bunny as they knock around peat bogs , dimly-lit pubs , and seedy hostelries trying to stay alive and out of trouble . 
mcdonald is a newcomer and a promising one at that , but gleeson has been in over a dozen movies , most recently as father bubbles in another film with a very irish accent on hilarity , " the butcher boy . " 
even if you can't comprehend half of what they're saying , gleeson and mcdonald together make " i went down " a trip worth taking . 
the film is in many ways reminiscent of another " little " independent feature , 1991's " highway 61 . " 
that film , too , was a road movie and it shares the same kind of wry dialogue and humorous situations as mcpherson's tale : whimsical observations on life , carefully-crafted vignettes , deadpan conversational asides , and scenes that'll make you laugh out loud . 
witness the episode in which our good-natured protagonists bind frank ( played by peter caffrey ) to a hotel bed , leaving him with only the tv remote for company . 
that sequence alone is on a par with satan locking himself out of his car in " highway 61 . " 
what's also charming about " i went down " is how the relationship between buddy and git develops . 
their trip becomes an education for both of them , but the way it's handled is neither sappy nor labored . 
the only thing in the film which approaches clunkiness is the culminating explanation , via flashbacks , of the relationship between frank and tom . 
it's a little too hollywood , and what makes " i went down " so refreshing is the fact that it rarely panders to traditional conventions of hollywood gangster movies . 
sure it's gritty--make that grubby--but it's also pretty goofy . 
although " i went down " emphasizes the comedic elements of dis-organized crime , there are a couple of fairly brutal scenes in keeping with the subject matter . 
don't let these deter you , though ; " i went down " is a little gem . 
it's only playing at one philadelphia-area theater--and i suspect it won't be there for long--so catch it while you can . 
 " you leave little notes on my pillow . 
i told you a million times i can't stand little notes on my pillow . 
'we are all out of corn flakes - f . u . ' 
it took me three hours to figure out that 'f . u . ' was felix unger . " 
--- a frustrated oscar madison ( walter matthau ) running down a list of his complaints against his roommate felix unger ( jack lemmon ) , in the odd couple . 
the classic neil simon comedy ( based on his own stage play ) about suicidal felix ( lemmon ) , who is persuaded by his poker friend oscar ( matthau ) to stay with him in his apartment after felix's wife throws him out and files for divorce . 
the hook : oscar is messy and likes his apartment that way , while felix is an obsessive/compulsive neat freak . 
the two men , despite their friendship , instantly clash . 
movies just aren't as delightfully funny as this one is . 
every line of neil simon's dialogue flows like comedic poetry , and all the actors are just perfect in their performances . 
lemmon is at his best as the anxiety ridden felix , but it's matthau who shines brightest as oscar , whose world is being invaded and rearranged , mostly against his wishes ( the type of character i always enjoy identifying with ) . 
and who can forget that catchy score by neal hefti ? 
the best thing about the film ( and this is a testament to the quality of the writing ) is that it's a comedy with substance . 
these two men , even while at each other's throats , genuinely care for one another as friends . 
when they clash , it isn't cartoonish hatred being displayed , but genuine frustration with the fact that they are such good friends but just cannot manage to co-exist . 
movies nowadays , take grumpy old men for example , just don't have that extra spark there . 
these days it's just animosity for the sake of comedy . 
a television series followed ( starring jack klugman and tony randall ) , which i'll admit i've never seen an episode of in its entirety , and neil simon even scripted the sequel , the odd couple ii , which was released in 1998 . 
neither of them compare to this comic masterpiece though . 
it's one of the best comedies of all time and easily earns its spot in my top ten favorite films . 
ingredients : lost parrot trying to get home , friends 
synopsis : a russian janitor named misha ( tony shalhoub ) discovers a little old parrot languishing in the basement of a science research facility . 
 " paulie the talking parrot " ( the voice of jay mohr ) soon regales misha with his life story . 
as a young bird paulie is raised by marie ( hallie kate eisenberg ) , a little girl with a speech impediment . 
by attending marie's speech lessons , paulie learns to act/speak like a regular person . 
unfortunately , after being unfairly blamed for an accident , paulie is taken to a pawn shop and sold . 
paulie's biggest wish is to return to marie . 
many years later , and after a succession of memorable owners ( gena rowlands , cheech marin , and jay mohr ) , paulie falls in with a bad crowd and is apprehended in los angeles trying to steal jewelry . 
he is sent to a cruel research facility , where he refuses to participate and is imprisoned the basement . 
will misha help paulie get back to marie ? 
opinion : every time people watch movies that portray animals as beings with cute human personalities , some well-meaning audience members go out next christmas or birthday and buy a dalmatian or whatever creature is currently popular . 
soon enough , " birthday kid " loses interest and the purchased pup ends up at the local pound , a victim of neglect . 
my sister owns a real paulie : it thinks like a parrot , bites like a parrot , and requires as much attention as a newborn human infant . 
please think twice before buying one . 
okay . back to the story . 
in movies , parrots usually play support characters , but paulie might be the first movie where the ( animatronic ) bird gets main billing . 
paulie , like those side characters in disney cartoons , is cute and sassy , a strutting , miniature human . 
actually , paulie is the voice of jay mohr ( he played jennifer aniston's boyfriend on picture perfect ) doing his best buddy hackett impression ( which is interesting , since hackett himself cameos as the pawn shop owner , and mohr doubles as a customer ) . 
paulie is for kids . 
while watching paulie you hear little tykes in the theater laughing hysterically when paulie calls the cat a " stupid furball . " 
sometimes , however , there are statements the kids don't get . 
for example , when paulie's elderly owner ivy ( gena rowlands ) dies , paulie explains , " well , one day , the cat got her . " 
and you hear kids exclaim , " what cat ? ! " 
imagine lassie come home , except with a doll-sized human dressed as a bird , and you'll have a good idea of the plot and characterization . 
bird tries to get home . 
bird meets elderly friend . 
bird loses elderly friend . 
bird meets eccentric friend . 
bird loses eccentric friend . 
bird meets bad influence . 
and so on and so forth , with paulie meeting friends and saying goodbye at a meandering pace until he finally makes it back to marie ( trini alvarado ) . 
the bottom line ? 
break out the popcorn money , moms and dads . 
paulie may be the low end version of lassie , bambi , or babe , but he'll do . 
sometimes the wisecracks go over their heads , but i'm sure youngsters can appreciate a story about a little person ( paulie ) trying to get home , meeting friends and experiencing moral lessons on the way . 
and good luck explaining what it means when paulie says of ivy , " well , one day , the cat got her . " 
tempe mills cinema , az--this movie had us in non-stop stitches from beginning to end . 
all those promotional clips that have been on tv for the past month came from the first five minutes of the movie . 
if you thought they were funny , see the rest of the movie . 
it's hilarious . 
how does one go about making a movie about a couple guys whose only claim to fame is synchronized head-bopping on snl to exactly one song ? 
easy . 
write an interesting script around tried-and-true ideas , add some good lines and satire , and voil ? , you end up with an excellent , well-done , very entertaining flick . 
will and chris are idiot brothers forced by their father to work begrudgingly in the family flower business during the day . 
at night they pursue their life-long ambition to loose their virginity in failed attempts to get into the roxbury in beverly hills , ca , the only disco act worth going to . 
the only problem , the place is so popular and the waiting line so long that by the time the brothers make it to the front door , the roxbury closes , all the while bearing witness to guys with one-hundred-dollar bills and movie stars like richard grieco who get past the doorman without fuss . 
the script authors ( steve koren , will ferrell and chris kattan ) cleverly devised a way for our boys to get into the roxbury . 
their flower-shop van is rear-ended by richard grieco , who fears a law-suit and is surprised to see the idiots are too star-struck to think about the car accident they just had , but not about getting into the roxbury . 
grieco happily takes them in , even introduces them to the owner , which has the added benefit of enhancing the financial appearance of the idiot brothers in the eyes of a couple of gold diggers ( elisa donovan and gigi rice ) who bet their time and bodies on will and chris . 
what follows are some of the best slap-stick dancing routines ever . 
the music is superb , and could have only been made better had the producers added patrick hernandez's born to be alive . 
the choreography at times was a parody of an era gone by , for example , the bee gees and their stayin' alive . 
it is nostalgic for those of us who remember that far back , and the technique is a clever adaptation that worked well in forest gump . 
one of the funniest scenes is when the gold diggers discover that will 
and chris don't have any mone y , and dump both on the spot , even expressing violence and anger that they gave sex away . 
an art-imitates-life poke at shallow women . 
it's a scene that's an approximate parody of the vinegar's own rolf luedeke's editorial this week national organization for men ( nom ) replaces now . 
ted " unabomber " 
kaczynski , himself rejected for not having money , will identify well with this scene , if he ever watches the movie . 
of course , the script wouldn't be complicated enough without adding molly shannon , the girl next door who has had a crush on will since they were kids , and who will has had an aversion to in quest of good-looking disco blondes ( proof that men will turn down perfectly good women when there are bay watch babes always lurking nearby ) . 
nevertheless , will's father wants him to marry molly anyway , but thinks idiot chris is standing in the way and sends him into guest-quarter exile . 
during the wedding ceremony , will's heart isn't exactly into getting married , and when his brother appears on the balcony with a ghetto blaster and more head-bopping music , will thinks worse of the knot-tieing idea and runs to chris . 
definitely an snl parody of the graduate where katharine ross changed her mind for the screaming dustin hoffman in the church balcony . 
i found this scene a riot , however , it went over brandi's head -- she was born seven years after the graduate first appeared . 
the scene has a good punch line when molly shannon marries , instead , the step-in buddy/weight-lifter ( who looks like he could pass for the son of gary busy ) and who has been lusting for a good-looker for a long time , but ready now to take anyone . 
more art-imitates-life stuff -- not even muscles can substitute for money in the real world . 
the idiots' mother is played by loni anderson , whose barbie-doll looks 
don't play well anymore ( she's a bit old ) , and whose cleavage looks like someone botched a tracheotomy too low down . 
i recommend this movie for anyone who wants to have a lot of fun or in 
need of a lot of laughs . 
go with a date . 
brandi laughed non-stop , as i 
did , and a deaf-mute might have concluded i was tickling her continuously for 105 minutes . 
there is nothing like american history x in theaters or on video . 
no other feature film takes such a cold hard look at the lure , the culture , and the brotherhood of white supremacy . 
nice guy ed norton jr . ( who sang in everyone says i love you ) plays derek , a twenty-year old skinhead . 
dad's subtle racism grew large in derek , after gang members killed his father . 
dad was fighting a fire when they shot him . 
now derek keeps his head shaved and has a giant swastika tattooed over his heart . 
derek is more interested in the ideas of white supremacy than in its culture of violence . 
at a basketball court , black and white tempers flare . 
derek channels the aggression into a game , black versus white , for ownership of the courts . 
when the choice presents itself , derek goes for game point instead of the sucker-punch . 
cameron ( stacy keach ) steps in to derek's life as a surrogate father . 
he takes derek under his wing and nurtures his racist feelings . 
keeping his own criminal record spotless , he uses derek as a leader and organizer for high-visibility racial intimidation . 
derek obliges by leading his younger and dumber friends in race-motivated mob crimes . 
at the bottom of the chain , derek's younger brother danny ( edward furlong , made famous in terminator 2 ) joins the skinheads not for ideological or intellectual reasons , but because he admires his brother and he wants to belong . 
one night three black youths break into derek's truck , which is exactly what derek has been waiting for . 
outside in his shorts and his tattoo , he shoots them all . 
the third would-be thief , unarmed , is only wounded . 
in the key scene of the film , derek commands the kid into a position where he can be killed with one glorious , enraptured , awful stomp . 
 ( the fun-spoiling nc-17 of orgazmo seems even more inappropriate , considering american history x was rated r . what sort of country is this that says sex comedies are a bigger threat to our youth than brutal , ecstatic violence ? ) 
the police arrive just as derek kills the last thief . 
derek does not resist the cops , and as they spin him around to cuff him , the film slows down . 
derek raises his eyebrows and smiles at his little brother in a chilling , sadistic , satisfied grin . 
now in prison , derek faces new challenges . 
as the black man in the laundry tells him , " in the joint , you the nigra , not me . " 
there is a clique of swastika-wearing skinheads , but they are not interested in the ideology of white supremacy . 
they only use the symbols as a means of intimidation . 
derek finds himself truly alone , truly in danger , and truly afraid . 
when derek finally gets out of prison , he finds that his friends from the gang have also changed . 
without derek's leadership , they have shunned the white supremacist ideology for the white supremacist culture . 
it is the final factor that makes him realize how badly he's screwed up . 
in the end , he spends quality time with is brother trying to undo the respect and admiration he had earlier inspired in danny . 
the film ends a little too deliberately , too neatly after the unchained emotion and violent glee of the rest of the film , but it barely detracts from the overall experience . 
edward norton gives an oscar-worthy performance . 
although some of his dialogue seemed to be written without enough conviction , norton's performance compensated . 
 ( an example that comes to mind is his pep talk before looting the store . ) 
he also captured the essence of an older brother . 
he took his responsibility as a role model to his younger brother very seriously , very lovingly , both before and after his change of heart . 
though clearly not for all tastes , this film is bold and daring . 
the subject matter is ugly , cruel , and at times hard to look at . 
nevertheless its subjects are part of humanity's great face . 
kaye gives us a good look at this fascinating , if distasteful , american subculture . 
john von neumann , progenitor of the computer age and critically important mathematician on the manhattan project , pointed out long ago that there is a great way to explore the cosmos , even without recourse to faster-than light travel . 
you send out self-replicating robot ships which explore and radio back information . 
it may take decades , centuries , or millennia , but it can be done with achievable technology , and doesn't require a magical faster-than-light drive . 
in the fifties , british astronomer fred hoyle improved on this plan by suggesting that it would be better to radio plans for a complex computer and a program for it ; any civilization capable of receiving the transmission could build the computer , which would then engage in a real-time dialog with the aliens , exchanging information and technologies , and hopefully arranging to send back what it had learned . 
about thirty-five years ago , the bbc contracted with astronomer/writer fred hoyle and writer frank elliot to create the scripts for a mini-series called a for andromeda . 
afa concerned the reception of a hoyle transmission , the construction of a huge computer , the computer's analysis of life on earth , and its creation of an apparently human intermediary to facilitate communication . 
she was played with ethereally inhuman perfection by the then-unknown julie christie . 
audience response was so strong that the bbc contracted for a sequel , andromeda breakthrough , which played to equally high ratings . 
dennis feldman , whose previous credits include the golden child , has never been noted for coherent , well-structured movie scripts ; they start out great , and then disintegrate into a morass of chase and action , mitigated only by the presence of the obligatory beautiful girl . 
feldman writes good scenes , but has no idea how to tell a story or write a movie , even with a previous version to use as a model . 
now , in species , we have a mundane retread of the andromeda plotline , derailed by a preoccupation with removing the clothes from the leading lady and further ruined by a mediocre attempt to emulate several recent horror films in terms of splatter , gore , and chases . 
species features ben kingsley , who is completely wasted in a badly-written portrayal of a feebly amoral scientist . 
forest whitaker and alfred molina are also served poorly by the script . 
the species story is relatively simple ; we have been radioing information about ourselves and our dna out into space since 1971 , and have been receiving answers for two years . 
 ( note that , in the 1970's , we really didn't know diddly about the human genome structure , and were hardly in a position to radio out a set of blueprints for human beings . 
even today , all we can do is give information about dna and how it works , not a copy of human dna , because we don't have it analyzed yet . ) 
the answers we get from the unknown alien source are plans for recreating a member of the alien race , and doctor xavier finch , played by ben kingsley , is placed in charge of the attempt . 
the script begins to go off the deep end at this point , when the result is a beautiful young girl who can shape-shift into any of several ugly alien life forms . 
the first half of the film has something to offer , as " sil , " the alien girl , struggles with her multi-form existence , changing from beauty to lizard to giant cockroach and back again , all while trying to understand her own place in the cosmos . 
she seems oddly knowledgeable about human society , with glaring gaps where her social skills should be . 
her instincts are to mate and procreate , and some of the best scenes deal with her attempts in this area . 
escaping from her birth laboratory in utah , sil is pursued by a team of drafted civilians with orders to find her and kill her . 
she goes on an eating binge , spins herself a cocoon , and emerges as an adult , played by natasha henstridge , who goes a long way toward re-creating the sheerly inhuman beauty julie christie achieved in 1960 . 
the pursuers : michael madsen is an assassin/exterminator ; forrest whitaker is a convenient empath/psychic , just as though the u . s . government actually had such people on call . 
neither is able to do much with the writing and directing provided . 
whitaker's role seems to be aimed at making whitaker a male copy of star trek : the next generation's " counselor cleavage . " 
the other members of the strike team are played by marg helgenberger and alfred molina . 
kingsley and whitaker are both consummate professionals , too good to not work to the best of their abilities ; but the performances donaldson elicited from the rest of the cast are disappointing and bland , and it is apparent that the direction was a bit weak . 
h . r . giger's design for the main form of the alien creature is actually a bit boring when we finally get to see it , although previous digital effects were done quite smoothly . 
the main fault of species is lack of originality ; it starts out with a wonderful , albeit borrowed , premise , and then doesn't live up to it . 
all we get are chase scenes and a few nice sex scenes , with a few monsters tossed in . 
there is no buildup of tension and suspense , no climax worthy of the name ; species is just a sequence of " scare " scenes stuck together . 
the movie is carried by its chase and sex scenes , but not rescued by them . 
on the other hand , as an exercise in sci-fi action/ adventure , it certainly beats the ichor out of judge dredd . 
species earns an extra rating point or two for having ben kingsley and natasha henstridge on board , but by and large , it's fun only for those of us who really like this sort of thing . 
my personal rating is three stars , but knock one or two of those off if you don't enjoy pretty unclothed ladies and bloodthirsty alien monsters . 
mpaa classification : r ( violence , gore , nudity , sex , language ) 
stars : ben kingsley , michael madsen , forest whitaker , alfred molina , marg helgenberger , natasha henstridge directed by : roger donaldson produced by : frank mancuso jr . and dennis feldman typed by : dennis feldman cinematography : andrzej bartkowiak music : christopher young run time : 108 minutes aspect ratio : 2 . 35 : 1 from mgm , opens 7 july 1995 
as the small boats rock slowly toward the shore at omaha beach normandy on d-day , the weary , seasick soldiers take a deep breath and open the large protective shield at the back of the boat . 
they are unaware of exactly what is going to happen . 
one man kisses the crucifix that hangs around his neck . 
as the flap falls , the battle begins . 
they are trapped like rats in a cage and proceed to be blown to pieces in the wake of enemy gunfire . 
amid the chaos of this massacre , stands a shot that , at least for me , hangs in the air like the girl in the little red coat in schindler's list . 
a soldier , clearly missing an arm , wanders around the body-strewn beach like a lost puppy . 
we are not invited to know what he is searching for until he finds it himself . 
he bends over , picks up his arm and starts to carry it , probably not bothering to ask himself ; " what now ? " 
saving private ryan is a masterfully composed film . 
the direction is out of this world , surely the type of command that can win spielberg another directing oscar . 
the cinematography , by janusz kaminsky , is also astounding . 
but be forewarned , this is the most violent and graphic film i have ever seen . 
the articles you read and the warnings you see are justified ; saving private ryan is visually as disturbing as a film can get . 
the question is , " does the story and its realism justify the excessive use ? " 
the answer from my point of view is " no " . 
braveheart was a truly gritty , and , one would imagine , realistic battle film . 
ryan is ten times worse . 
expect disembowelments , sucked in skulls , heads blown to bits , arms and legs flying across the battlefield . 
many in the theater could not bear to watch . 
and it is a shame , too , because this is otherwise by far one of the standouts this year . 
but such graphic displays may turn away even the most loyal spielberg supporters ( and academy members ) . 
saving private ryan takes us from the attack at omaha beach on d-day , 1944 , through into the film's primary mission . 
captain miller ( hanks ) assembles an 8 man crew and sets off to find a missing solider , private ryan , whose three brothers have already been killed on the battlefield . 
the government goes to great lengths to make sure that mrs . ryan doesn't recieve a fourth letter of condolences about her sons , that no person should suffer such injustice . 
miller's crew is not in favor of the mission and they begin to harbor a secret hatred for ryan , though they don't yet know him . 
they resent having to trudge out to bring home one soldier who doesn't have any more or less right to live than any of them . 
this film manages to keep up a rapid pace and , though there is a lot of set up between battles , the story continues full speed to the end . 
the pacing and dramatism of the extremely well choreographed battle scenes is really in a league of it's own . 
spielberg , though not a student of the " quick cut " school of filmmaking , takes a stab at it here , and does it better than michael bay or any of his mtv counterparts could ever hope to do it . 
bay should pay close attention , take copious notes . 
if you want to jump cut every two seconds , do it the way spielberg does it in ryan . 
in the end , the extremity of the gory violence is not justified by the " importance " of the film . 
schindler's list taught many people the truth about the holocaust . 
it opened eyes , sparked debate and study . 
though the battle scenes in ryan have never been portrayed as realistically before , they don't amount to anything as serious or thought provoking as the schindler's list . 
overall , this is just the truest depiction of the old adage , " war is hell . " 
but braveheart-dosage would have fit this movie much more appropriately , and would have made the difference between me getting up the nerve to see it again some day and realizing that this is something i doubt i could endure again . 
masterful work marred only by excessive gore . 
 " the faculty , " the heavily-hyped and advertised sci-fi/horror film that has teamed up director robert rodriguez ( 1995's " desperado " and 1996's " from dusk till dawn " ) and screenwriter kevin williamson ( 1996's " scream " and 1997's " scream 2 " ) , is being called a cross between " invasion of the body snatchers " and " the breakfast club , " and i don't think i could describe it any better than that . 
the film sets up the six central teenage characters who do not seem to have much in common , and then the science-fiction aspect is added , involving the fear that the faculty at herrington high school are actually aliens who are quickly transforming everyone in the town . 
the six characters , as in " the breakfast club , " can be easily labeled as a stereotype , but as they are developed , they become far more complex : casey ( elijah wood ) , the much picked upon nerd ; stokely ( clea duvall ) , a goth outcast who hides behind the false facade of being a lesbian so everyone will avoid her ; zeke ( josh hartnett ) , a drug dealer who turns out to be a science whiz ; stan ( shawn hatosy ) , the star football quarterback who is considering quitting the team to concentrate more on academics ; delilah ( jordanna brewster ) , the popular cheerleader and newspaper journalist ; and marybeth ( laura harris ) , the sweet 'n southern new girl in town . 
although the characters are only slightly connected ( i . e . 
casey is delilah's photojournalist assistant ; marybeth tries to become buddies with stokely , since they both don't have friends , etc . ) , when they all begin to suspect the teachers due to some grotesque and strange occurrences , the only people they can count on for help is each other , even though they aren't really even sure if they can trust one another . 
 " the faculty " is another smart and pop-culturally hip film from williamson , although it does not equal up to his best film , the original " scream , " and rodriguez , whose " from dusk till dawn " is still one of the more original genre films of the 90's . 
williamson and rodriguez are so assured at their professions , respectively , that the idea of teaming up together is pretty much a no-brainer . 
the plotline of " the faculty , " involving aliens taking over other people's bodies , has been done quite a lot before , from " invasion of the body snatchers , " to " the puppet masters , " to " invaders from mars , " so one of the obstacles that williamson and rodriguez had to overcome was to somehow make the idea seem fresh , and by setting the goings-on at a high school and having the protagonists be a group of teens , they were mostly successful . 
surely , the conventions of the story are still the same , and the climax was inevitable , but there were a few surprises along the way , including the question of who were the aliens , and who weren't . 
the epilogue was also a refreshing change-of-pace as it did not set up a sequel but ended on a note that probably could not have been any better . 
the performances in " the faculty " were a treat throughout , since there were so many recognizable actors in roles that were the polar opposite of what they usually do . 
one exception were the teens , who , aside from elijah wood , are not very well-known , but they all aquit themselves nicely , particularly wood ( the seasoned pro ) , clea duvall , and jordanna brewster . 
as members of the faculty , robert patrick ( " t2 : judgement day " ) was creepy as the gym coach ; piper laurie was amusing and threatening as the drama teacher ; bebe neuwirth actually was somehow able to look like an alien ; and salma hayek , as the school nurse with a bad case of the cold , was very funny in a small role . 
the standout , in my opinion , of the whole cast was famke janssen who turns in an oddly touching performance as the shy and meek english teacher who , after turning into an alien , becomes the sex bombshell . 
if there was any problem i had with the faculty , it was that some of them were given no real payoff in the climactic sequence . 
since the teenagers realize that in order to save everyone they must kill the " queen " alien , many of the faculty members disappear . 
it might have been more fun if they had to face every one of the teachers , although the finale is still pretty impressive , and includes some showstopping creature effects , especially for a relatively low 15-million-dollar budget . 
although not one of the best horror or science-fiction films i have seen , " the faculty " is still an exciting and worthy film that dimension films was smart to release around the holiday season when this type of genre offering is usually not released . 
while the story is as old as the hills , it is also , in a way , timeless , because everyone , i think , has suspected at one time or another that a certain person simply did not act right , as if they really weren't human . 
and by putting this idea in the setting of a small-town high school , it perfectly contrasts with the alienation that most teenagers usually go through when relating to adults and other peers . 
+ note : the ad and poster campaign for this film is hugely misleading , as it features r & b artist usher raymond as one of the main characters . 
in actuality , he only has a small role as one of stan's buddies who becomes quarterback after stan resigns from the team . 
if i were one of the heads from dimension , i would change this advertising at once , since it is unnecessary and rather deceiving . 
the central focus of michael winterbottom's " welcome to sarajevo " is sarajevo itself , the city under siege , and its different effect on the characters unfortunate enough to be stuck there . 
it proves the backdrop for a stunningly realized story which refreshingly strays from mythic portents ( " platoon " ) , racial tumultuosness ( the risible " the walking dead " ) or a tinge of schmaltziness ( " schindler's list " ) . 
the two leads , stephen dillane as a reporter and emira nusevic as an orphan with a plight few can identify with , are extremely believable ; not one moment with them involved rings false . 
the question is not what went right . 
the question is what went wrong . 
for one , the film fails to provide a political overview of the war as it progresses ( the dillane characters reports an american plane departing from sarajevo as it departs , and that's about it . ) . 
the assortment of high-profile supporting actors , ranging from woody harrelson as a yankee reporter " into " liquor and cigarrettes to marisa tomei as a huggable children's aid or somesuch are incapable of rising above the sketchiness of their characters , albeit they strive . 
the interrupted use of authentic war footage somewhat hampers the rest of the film , it makes the fictional characters seem powerless by comparison . 
still , winterbottom eschews mawkishness through flashy , frantic editing and imaginative use of music . 
and it's a plus , because he doesn't toy with our emotions with sentimental blandness . 
he wants us to know that in war , no one is victorious . 
the sweet hereafter 
starring ian holm , sarah polley , bruce greenwood , tom mccamus , gabrielle rose , arsinee khanjian , alberta watson , maury chaykin , caerthan banks . 
produced by atom egoyan and camelia frieberg . 
script by atom egoyan ( based on the novel by russell banks ) . 
directed by atom egoyan . 
running time : 110 mins . 
rated r . __________________________________________________________ 
atom egoyan's powerfully meditative " the sweet hereafter " is as anything as haunting and transcendental as i've seen this year . 
it not only explores the aftermaths of a terrible tragedy with magnificent subtlety , with cold , and stunning shots of the backdrop of this mistfortune but also by telegraphing the sense of devastation that has permeated the small town with an enormous amount of dignity and respect for each and every soul affected . 
ian holm as the somber , lonely lawyer seeking compensation for the townspeople , has a decency and a restraint uncommon with lawyers , he's a lion for the wrong reasons : the pain for having lost his daughter ( she's a druggie who frequently calls him begging for money ) is reflected on the town . 
and in some mesmerizing flashbacks , we witness how she lost her purity . 
it's one of the most strikingly breathtaking takes on the loss of innocence i've ever seen . 
but the most astounding part goes to sarah polly , the peaceful , benevolent girl who , in contrast to the other characters , remains the most mentally stable during past , present or future . 
her ability to convey concealed pain and unconditional love is the opposite , yet near-revolutionary role that won emily watson an oscar nomination for " breaking the waves " . 
both women are torn apart by an extraordinary incident but it is only then that we truly see , truly feel , their wordless , omnipotent love . 
 " the sweet hereafter " though , is atom egoyan's movie and as of now , he is emerging as the definite face of independent cinema . 
after surging to worldwide recognition with 1994's " exotica " , " the sweet hereafter " makes him something few people in this industry can call themselves : an artist . 
he interweaves time with a delicacy and sees a soul with a purity that is just not common . 
after the average mouse hunt , the silly small soldiers and the entertaining antz , dreamworks try again with the children's film market with this stunning adaptation of the moses story . 
as the film warns us at the beginning , it's not the full story , and some liberties have been taken , but generally this the bible story we all know and love , featuring burning bushes , the plagues and the parting of the red sea . 
the only thing missing is charlton heston . 
instead , we get val kilmer voicing moses , an hebrew who is placed in a river by his mother and rescued by the queen of egypt ( helen mirren . ) 
we flash forward several years to see moses and brother rameses ( fiennes ) all grown up . 
moses soon finds out from brother and sister miriam and aaron ( sandra bullock and jeff goldblum ) that he isn't really the son of the pharaoh seti ( patrick stewart ) and that it his destiny to free the hebrews from the egyptians tyrannical rule . 
he soon sets about this , along with his wife tzipporah ( michelle pfeiffer . ) 
rameses and his two wizard friends ( voiced by steve martin and martin short ) try to stop moses completing his task . 
while the plot is familiar and somewhat exciting for adults , for children reared on aladdin and hercules , this film could be the most godawful thing they've ever seen . 
gone is the quick fire humour and standard , easy to follow plot . 
but , spectacularly , and to dreamworks credit , nearly every child in the audience was captivated by the story and events happening on screen . 
jeffrey katzenberg , who produced this film , certainly knows how to keep a child interested . 
he's included some songs in the film , plus some comedy , and a exciting chariot chase , to keep the children interested . 
and somehow , himself and the directors still manage to get all the drama and intensity of the story across , without ever being boring . 
it's a remarkable achievement . 
also remarkable is the animation , which puts hercules , an almost 'slap dash' effort , to shame . 
relying on hand drawn and computer animation , the backgrounds and characters are amazingly detailed . 
the film seems a little caught up with it's amazing visuals by showing a lot of sweeping visuals and 'moving' shots , but they _do_ look incredible . 
the final 'plague' where god kills every first born child , and the parting of the red sea have to be seen to be believed . 
kudos to the animators . 
the vocal talent is also very good . 
val kilmer does a fine job as moses ( although he doesn't sing ) and ralph fiennes is superb as rameses ( and he _does_ sing . ) 
sandra bullock and jeff goldblum are great , and steve martin and martin short are very good , but not in the film long enough . 
finally , michelle pfeiffer does excellent work as moses wife . 
kudos also goes to the voice of god , who instead of booming and bombastic is quiet and subdued . 
sadly , he is uncredited , and i couldn't quite work out who the voice was . 
 ( but e-mail if you do . ) 
the songs are good , ranging from the usual love sonnets to the traditional big production number . 
they don't disturb the movie , and while not particularly memorable , they are nice to listen to ( they're well sung aswell . ) 
the musical score is suitably epic , with some beautiful tunes . 
coupled with the superb visuals , the prince of egypt is a visual and aural treat , backed up with a great story . 
entertaining both for kids and adults , this film is a must see . 
a david wilcock review ? 1998 
 " you know , for kids " - norville barnes 
i have seen several ( but not that many ) woody allen movies . 
i didn't particulary like radio days , the purple rose of cairo , play it again , sam . 
i quite enjoyed manhatten murder mystery and everything . . . 
sex , and i loved might aphrodite . 
however i found bullets over broadway to be a snoozing bore . 
and bullets got some very raving reviews , but i didn't think i'd like . 
but i finally saw it ( double feature with ready to wear i think ) and hated it . 
since . . . 
i love you also seems to be getting raving reviews i wasn't sure if i'd want to see . . . 
thankfully i did ! 
people burst into singing and dancing , something i hardly ever like . 
but this movie is so infectious . 
and funny ! 
and entertaining ! 
 ( and unlike evita , they only sing when they need to . ) 
sure some of the actors may not be great singers , but they seems to be having a great time , and so does the audience . 
that's all i have to say . 
really , if you think that is going to be a dull movie , you're probably dead . 
and dead people should not be forced into movie theatres . 
is mark leeper dead ? 
he said that " this is an almost ghastly misfire " . 
the movie is rated r , for * one * use of the word motherf * * * * * . 
fritz lang's first american film since leaving nazi germany , is an eye-opener about a lynch mob in a small town . 
joe wilson ( spencer tracy ) is a regular joe , a hard-working stiff , a decent guy , who is living with his two brothers , tom ( walcott ) and charlie ( albertson ) , in chicago . 
he is engaged to katherine grant ( sylvia sidney ) , but can't save up enough money to marry her . 
she takes the train west for a better paying job as a teacher . 
before she departs , she gives him the wedding ring her father gave to her mother , sews up his ripped trench coat , corrects him when he mistakingly says the wrong word for memento , and kisses him goodbye . 
a year goes by and joe buys a car and tells katherine that he will meet her to get married in capitol city , that he has quit his job and hopes to open a gas station . 
driving through the rural backroads and camping out at night while going to met her , he arrives at a near-by town called strand . 
but the deputy sheriff " buggs " meyers ( walter brennan ) comes upon him waving a shotgun and arrests him . 
he accuses him of the kidnapping of a little girl . 
the sheriff ( ellis ) finds salted peanuts on him just like the kidnapper had in his pocket , he also has a five dollar bill on him that matches one of the numbers of the ransom money , and he fits the general description of the suspect . 
locked in jail , he waits for the district attorney to look at his claim of innocence . 
in the local bar , the town citizens go into a rage when learning that an arrest has been made in the kidnapping . 
fueled by angry talk about getting back at the kidnapper and of having the deputy inadvertently telling them of the ransom money found on the suspect , a mob storms the jail , burns it down and dynamites it when they can't get through to the prisoner's jail cell . 
the sheriff called the governor for the national guard , but one of his political advisers countermanded that request , saying it wouldn't look right for the governor in an election year to call out troops for those he wants to vote for him . 
somehow joe escapes , but his dog rainbow dies . 
katherine hears what has happened on the radio and rushes to the neighboring town of strand only to see him engulfed by flames in his cell , and becomes convinced that he died . 
the next day the newspapers announce that the guilty kidnapper confesses . 
joe makes his way back to chicago and tells his brothers , who are startled to see him alive , that he wants revenge . 
he thereby supplies his brothers with the names of the 22 leaders in the lynch mob . 
an ambitious district attorney ( walter abel ) prosecutes the 22 for murder . 
katherine , not knowing he's alive , remains in a state of shock , but is asked to be a witness that she saw joe burning to death . 
the defense claims that it can't be a charge of murder without a corpse . 
the trial proves to be interesting , as the citizens in this close-knit , respectable community , lie under oath , providing alibis for each other to prove they couldn't have been at the jail . 
the sheriff also lies , saying he can't identify anyone in the mob . 
but proof comes by way of a newsreel cameraman who caught the whole incident on film . 
as for proof of the corpse , an anonymous letter is addressed to the judge enclosed with the wedding ring katherine gave joe . 
in the note , memento is misspelled , which makes katherine realize that joe is alive . 
when the sentence is announced , 20 of the accused are found guilty of murder , but joe marches into the courtroom and gives a pious speech about what happened . 
katherine forgives him , and this very strong film ends on a weaker note than i think it should have . 
but don't blame lang for all the changes in the film , of trying to take the town off the hook by introducing this wild revenge motive . 
mgm couldn't bear to have it made the way lang wanted it , that is , by having tracy die in the lynching . 
instead they wanted to stop short of condemning so many small american towns where lynchings actually do occur , and they thereby meddled throughout the entire script . 
to lang's credit , even if this film failed to be a masterpiece because of the interference , it still did not let the good citizens off the moral hook . 
his portrayal of the attempted lynching was powerfully done and was not compromised . 
you couldn't help get the feeling that the citizens didn't care that much that they almost lynched an innocent man , but cared more about protecting the reputation of their town and would do anything to keep their 22 vigilantes from going to jail , even perjuring themselves . 
their reaction to seeing joe alive was satisfying only in that it meant they weren't going to be convicted . 
lang by no means implies that the town has learned its lesson from this incident . 
he does imply that a dark side to joe wilson has been exposed , and the innocent , jovial good-guy , seen in the beginning of the film , has been largely altered forever by this traumatic experience . 
veteran actor clint eastwood has never looked as grizzled as he does in true crime , his latest directorial effort . 
when steve everett ( his newest character ) gets angry at someone , he glares them down with those famous dirty harry eyes , furrows his brow and frowns like a grizzly bear who's just lost his cubs . 
eastwood has played some particularly despicable characters in his time , but everett could just take the cake . 
he gets my vote , at least , partly because `ev' is a drunken affair-a-week womanizer who has many relationship problems , very few of which are with his wife ( diane venora ) . 
when his colleague at the oakland tribune is in an ugly car wreck and dies , everett must take over for her at a vital interview session . 
the interview is with frank beacham ( isaiah washington ) , a death-row inmate set to die at midnight for the murder of a pregnant convenience store clerk . 
eastwood furrows his brow . 
as everett gradually finds information , he realizes that beacham could very well be innocent . 
he interviews a key witness ( michael jeter ) , who claims that he burst in the door at pocum's foods because his car had overheated , only to see beacham standing over the dead woman's body , blood on his suspenders , gun in hand . 
but everett protests : how could he have seen the gun , which was lowered by his side , with the potato chip rack in front of him ? 
jeter doesn't know what he's talking about . 
eastwood furrows his brow . 
crinkled expressions and all , clint is the centre of energy of true crime . 
the film is by no means a standard action/suspense yarn , but a thoughtful human story in which the characters come before the shoot-outs . 
isaiah washington has a break-out performance as frank beacham , and scenes with him and his weary wife ( lisa gay hamilton ) are truly heartfelt moments . 
but the best scenes are ones that feature eastwood duking it out with those in authority over him . 
denis leary , as everett's editor and boss , has more than a few memorable moments of restrained anger ( you see , ev is sleeping with his wife ) . 
but hands down , the most enjoyable segments of the film are when james woods is on camera . 
playing the big boss alan mann , woods and eastwood create amusing chemistry and laugh-out-loud punchlines . 
when true crime opts for a high-speed chase to the governer's house at the finale , the quality of film-making takes an abrupt nosedive . 
eastwood was so successful with colorful character portraits that he didn't need to switch lanes . 
true crime is a tension-building , intriguing drama showcase for the talented director and star . 
this is a road block he could have easily dismissed ( i furrow my brow ) . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
those of you who frequently read my reviews are not likely to be surprised by the fact that i have not read victor hugo's novel les miserables . 
i don't know if a lot of people have , though i imagine many are familiar with the popular musical based on the novel . 
i haven't even seen that . 
going into this film , i had almost no knowledge of the story or its characters ( i even expected the film to be a musical ) . 
walking away from it , i'm kind of glad i had no prior experience with the material . 
writer/director bille august's film version is a straightforward , beautifully told film . 
liam neeson stars as the miserable jean valjean ; in the beginning , he has just been released from a 19-year prison sentence . 
he is allowed to stay in a convent by a kindly priest despite his rude and destructive behavior . 
the priest's words of wisdom influence him , and he makes a vow to change himself . 
nine years later , we are informed that he is now the mayor of a town called vigo ; nobody knows his real name , and that he is wanted for skipping his parole nine years ago . 
conflicts arise when inspector javert ( geoffrey rush ) is assigned to vigo . 
valjean remembers javert as one of the prison guards who constantly beat him , and javert remembers jean to be a convict . 
javert is hell-bent on upholding the law , and he does everything in his power to bring jean to justice . 
along the way , valjean meets and falls in love with a peasant woman , fantine ( uma thurman ) , and vows to take care of her daughter , cosette ( played later by claire danes ) . 
les miserables is visually a solid and often striking picture . 
the production design by anna asp is authentic and vast , and the sets don't look like sets ( they look like real towns and villages ) ; gabriella pescucci's costumes are noticeably spectacular . 
basil poledouris' soundtrack is thick and usually well-placed ( though it does get a bit heavy at times ) . 
many scenes in the film have a memorable photographic quality , such as the climax , which takes place next to a dark river in the grey obscurity of early evening . 
augusts keeps the story simple ( which i hear is a good thing , since the novel is so complex ) and easy to follow . 
he manages to develop the main characters and most of the subplots adequately . 
i was also impressed that he didn't go overboard with flash and style , which is something so many directors seem to be doing to classic stories these days ( such as baz luhrmann's vicious tragedy william shakespeare's romeo + juliet ) . 
this film feels solid and whole , and each scene has a certain amount of importance and vigor that keeps the audience interested . 
liam neeson is terrific in the main role ; neeson is the kind of actor who does solemn desperation extremely well , and valjean is certainly a man who clearly fits that adjective . 
thurman , in her small role , is very good , and proves that she has a lot of range and can perform in a very non-glamorous role such as this one . 
rush is absolutely incredible as javert ; i don't remember ever feeling so strongly about a villain as i do here ; he adds depth and complexity with subtle glances and nuances , and effortlessly makes each of his scenes intense . 
i can't be as charitable for danes , however ; though i know she is a talented actress , here she tends to overact when it might have been better to underplay the character a bit . 
les miserables is , as i've said , a solid , intelligent motion picture . 
my only complaint is that it feels a bit too easy , and perhaps too staged . 
each scene is grand and huge , and exploding with poledouris' score , but i didn't always want them to be . 
for the most part , les miserables is not a subtle or deep picture . 
it's a good movie , and tells its story well , but august tends to hand-feed us themes and scenes that would have worked better had they been more subtle . 
however , in a film this exciting and well-produced , a few minor flaws are easily overlooked . 
this is a stagy film adapted from roger rueff's play " hospitality suite . ''its 
about three travelling salesmen attending an industrial convention , whose chicago company has sent them to wichita , where the company has paid all their expenses for them to rent a hospitality suite on the 16th floor of the hotel , where they aim to score a substantial account from the big kahuna , someone named dick fuller , who is the head of a big industrial corporation . 
he is someone they have never met before , but they want to sell him industrial lubricants and they want desperately to land this new account , it is their only reason for coming to the convention . 
 " the big kahuna " revels in salesmen-talk among the three white christian males , two of them , larry ( spacey ) and phil ( devito ) , who are veteran salesmen , having teamed together for the last twelve years , while bob ( facinelli ) is a young man who has just recently been hired by the firm and works in the research department . 
these three are virtually imprisoned in their small hospitality suite waiting to meet the big kahuna , as the focus of this claustrophobic film is on their interactions in the hospitality suite . 
the three salesmen have different things on their mind that is troubling them and a different attitude to their job , and they are each going through internal changes that are profoundly altering their life . 
the outstanding cast tries to figure out in their own way what they are doing and why . 
what comes into question is their opinions on life and death , on god and morality , and on how they make a living . 
these are tough questions and the truth seems to be somewhere in their sales pitch . 
their dialogue is acerbic , witty , and analytical . 
following in the long tradition of salesmen films -- from death of a salesman , the tin men , and glengarry glen ross , as this film tries to get you to see what there is about salesmanship that gets these men high . 
in this case , it is landing the big kahuna . 
they each are trying to see why he's on top and why they are chasing after him . 
what makes this film different than the others , is its blatant religious message , comparing orthodox religion to what they do , as both must sell their product . 
and how after each one's psyche is stripped clean by the other , there is a pause and some lesson about life has sunk in that is pertinent to each . 
the goal in the movie is not in literally landing the big kahuna , but in finding out what bill of goods they sold themselves that made them be salesmen . 
larry and phil have one way of doing things and have no qualms of incorporating a sales pitch as part of their life . 
bob thinks he is above the fray and he pitches every chance he can get about his belief in jesus christ . 
his vacuous character and smug outlook on life are covered by a disarming smile and an eagerness for him to prove in his actions the words of jesus he literally believes in . 
bob is a baptist , who takes a very non-questioning and literal attitude about religion . 
to just look at another woman and lust after her is a sin , according to the way he reads the bible . 
when asked by larry why he married his wife , he seems puzzled and can't even say because he loves her , only that marriage is something sacred to him . 
the contrast in their personalities is stark . 
larry is all business , he simply wants to close the sale . 
he comes into the room pumped for the convention , using his attack mode to establish how serious he is about being a salesman . 
he criticizes phil for being so placid , for getting such a small suite , for having the cheap food tray of carrot sticks rather than the one of stuffed shrimp , and for being burned-out . 
he tells him to go on a vacation . 
get a woman . 
while phil is reflective on where all his best years have gone for him and is contemplating a career change , now that he is 52 and is painfully divorcing his wife , after having lived too lonely a life on the road for too long . 
he now finds himself suffering from some troubling dreams and questioning what he believes in . 
he has always been a charmer , shaking everyone's hand , trying to please his clients while trying to make the sale . 
larry is more aggressive as a salesman , he is always a heart attack away from every big sale . 
in contrast , bob is only in his twenties and everything seems fresh to him . 
this is his first time for him on the road . 
when dick fuller doesn't arrive at the party the salesmen throw , larry becomes confrontational and asks phil if he spoke to the man himself about the gathering . 
when told that he spoke to the secretary , larry throws a tantrum and is resigned to going back to their home office without the new account . 
but when they start talking to bob , whom they forced to act as the bartender , they are surprised to learn that fuller did indeed come but was wearing another man's name tag and that bob spent the entire evening consoling the tycoon over his recently deceased dog and then talking to him about jesus . 
bob then tells the boys about a private party fuller is attending afterwards , and that he invited bob to attend . 
larry and phil can't fathom how bob didn't make a sales pitch . 
but they soon take another tact and decide to prep bob on how to get fuller's attention about their company's product as they sent him off to meet fuller , and will await his return in the hotel room . 
these two sharp salesmen are reduced to waiting for this smug kid to come back and tell them he saved their ass . 
the irony of their situation is played out in the darkness of the hotel room , as they stay up late into the night trying to make sense out of their lives . 
these three performers were outstanding , each understanding what their role called for , each coming through with a marvelous performance . 
the only problem with the film , is that its more of a play than a cinematic experience . 
but the insightful dialogue and refreshing dramatics , give it an intelligent selling point and make it a good product to see . 
the coen brothers are back again , this time with homer's " odyssey " as the backdrop in their tale of three fugitives from a mississippi chain gang who trek across the south to find a secret treasure in " o brother , where art thou ? " 
right for the beginning of " o brother " the coens grab your attention with a chain gang of prison inmates breaking rocks along the road in unison to a work song . 
the camera flows around the hard toiling men , giving a visually exciting symmetry to the scene that ends with our three heroes - ulysses everett mcgill ( george clooney ) , delmar ( tim blake nelson ) and pete ( john turturro ) - escaping across a cotton field . 
it is the beginning of a journey that takes on different meanings and urgencies to each member of the trio . 
a strong suite , as always with the coen brothers , is the depth of character of the folks they create in their films . 
their characters are goofy and comical , like nicolas cage in " raising arizona " ; or , dramatic , as albert finney and john turturro in " miller's crossing " ; and , even a mix of the two with frances mcdormand in " fargo . " 
in all cases , and in " o brother , " too , the characters populating their films are three-dimensional people . 
ulysses everett is a handsome , hair-obsessed petty criminal with a silver tongue and not a lot in the brains department . 
but , he seems like a genius when compared to the simple , sweet delmar and the maladjusted pete , who follow their self appointed leader to a promised treasure of $1 . 2 million . 
their odyssey takes on the mystical proportions of homer's original material as they meet all manner of people along the way , including those dangerous sirens who beckon them onto symbolically rocky shoals and a cyclops who beats them and takes all their money . 
there is magic , too , when delmar believes that pete was turned into a horny toad by the sirens . 
the story meanders through the different vignettes of the boys' adventures , giving the flick a choppy , episodic feel that disrupts the overall flow . 
some of the interludes are an epiphany , though . 
the trio becomes a quartet when they pick up guitar-playing tommy johnson ( chris thomas king ) and visit a radio station in the middle of nowhere , run by its blind owner ( stephen root ) . 
they become the soggy bottom boys for the sightless radio station man and , without their knowledge , are recorded as they sing the traditional tune , " i am a man of constant sorrow . " 
it is a wonderful moment of moviemaking and gives us , in my mind , the best movie song of the year . 
contrasting this and other wonderful moments ( the sexy seduction by the sirens comes to mind ) are some pretentious bits that detract from the overall quality of " o brother . " 
in particular , near the end , is a scene where ulysses , delmar and pete crash a ku klux klan rally to save tommy from being lynched . 
the scene is overblown and flashy and reeks of " the wizard of oz . " 
they don't say " lions and tigers and bears , oh my ! " 
and there's no dorothy , but it is the land of oz we're seeing here . 
the highs and lows of the story flow are tempered by fine acting on several levels . 
george clooney is funny , charming , a little dumb and one of the handsomest actors in the business today . 
he has the charm of a 30's movie idol and is able to put himself into silly situations with dignity . 
ulysses has an ongoing obsession with his hair , risking life and limb to get a particular brand of pomade and a supply of hairnets . 
his vanity will come to plague him as it would any mystical hero-wanderer . 
while clooney is the name draw for " o brother , " the show stealer is tim blake nelson as delmar . 
the heretofore unknown nelson is terrific as the simple convict who , at one point , hears the word of the lord and joins members of a church congregation in their mass baptism . 
delmar is saved and dedicates his life to doing good and provides a richness to his simple character that makes him shine . 
the taciturn pete , as played by longtime coen collaborator turturro , is the sullen member of the trio and gives them the necessary angst . 
all together , the tuneful triumvirate is a mix of the three stooges and the three musketeers as they prove to be buffoons , albeit brave ones . 
the colorful supporting cast is rampant with homerian characters to meet and get to know along the way of the boys' odyssey . 
charles durning appears as incumbent governor pappy o'daniel , who keeps crossing paths with them in his bid for re-election . 
john goodman is wicked as the one-eyed bible salesman and con artist , big dan teague . 
michael badalucco is manic and outrageous as outlaw and bank robber extraordinary , george " babyface " nelson . 
stephen root is amusing as the blind dj , rep'ing one of the many references to the sightless that abound in the film in mystical ways . 
holly hunter is wasted in the small role as ulysses' estranged wife , penny ( and the real reason for this adventure , not secret treasure ) . 
techs are , as expected in a coen brothers venture , first class . 
cinematographer roger deakins , who has worked on five previous coen films , captures the sultry atmosphere of the south . 
the photography complements the lush period production and costume provided by dennis gassner and mary zophres , respectively . 
once again , roderick jaynes - the alter ego of ethan and joel coen - is on board as editor . 
the high points outweigh the low through most of " o brother , where art thou ? " 
with particular praise for the wonderful selection of period and traditional music . 
i give it a b . 
contact ( pg ) there's a moment late in robert zemeckis's contact where i was reminded of why i started writing movie reviews in the first place . 
we see a scientist , dressed in a silvery space suit , walking tentatively across a narrow walkway leading inside a compact , spherical space pod , unaware of what awaits when the ball literally drops . 
anticipation , excitement , anxiety , fear--the audience experiences it all the emotional tension right with the character , nervously , breathlessly eager to see what lies ahead . 
it is this sense of discovery , the anticipation of which and its accompanying exhilaration , that makes this adaptation of the carl sagan novel such magical , captivating entertainment . 
jodie foster stars as dr . ellie arroway , a brilliant astronomer who dedicates her entire life to searching outer space for extraterrestrial radio signals . 
and i mean life--after losing her entire family when she was young , the only thing occupying ellie's world is this quest to discover life beyond this earth . 
after dealing with much skepticism on the part of government officials and wealthy financiers , ellie receives her vindication when she stumbles upon an incoming radio transmission from the distant star vega , which includes instructions on building an interstellar transport . 
from this synopsis , contact does not sound too different to most films about alien contact , but there is a whole lot more to this intelligent film than the sci-fi hook . 
the alien contact angle generates a great amount of suspense and awe , but perhaps more than anything else , contact is a character study of ellie , whose obsession with empirical , scientific evidence has erased all belief in a higher power . 
the irony is that , while admitting to having no religious faith , she holds onto her belief in extraterrestrial life with such passion and conviction that it becomes , in a sense , a religion in its own right . 
it would be easy for scripters james v . hart and michael goldenberg , in trying to paint a positive image of the heroine , to champion her scientific beliefs over religious ones , but they wisely eschew easy answers , giving equal time to both sides , and in so doing depict ellie as not completely sane . 
in the end , there is no right or wrong , nor is there one side that comes off more positive in the other , even slightly so--there are just two very viable points of view , each with their own merits , each with their own faults . 
the complex role of ellie is an actress's dream , and foster , a virtual shoo-in for yet another best actress oscar nomination next year , more than rises to the challenge . 
she conveys intelligence , determination , warmth , and , in a gutsy move , always on edge . 
we root for ellie and feel for her , but we also feel at times that she goes too far . 
contact is clearly foster's vehicle , but others are given their chance to shine in smaller roles . 
matthew mcconaughey , who receives outrageously high billing for his smallish role , holds his own as the religious counterpoint to ellie , spiritual scholar and government adviser palmer joss ( however , his main storyline , the tentative palmer-ellie romance , is the film's weakest subplot ) . 
john hurt is effectively creepy as s . r . 
hadden , the wealthy eccentric who provides ellie with her research funding . 
angela bassett continues to impress in her bit role as white house aide rachel constantine . 
most memorable of all , though , are tom skerritt and james woods , who play rival scientist dr . david drumlin and national security adviser michael litz , respectively ; both , especially skerritt , embody these asshole characters that the audience hissed just about every single one of their appearances . 
zemeckis comes off of his three-year break in top shape . 
always known as a director of effects-laden extravaganzas , it comes as no surprise that contact's visual effects are quite stunning . 
the central space journey is more than a little reminiscent of the close of 2001 : a space odyssey , but with more advanced technology at his disposal , zemeckis's voyage is even trippier than stanley kubrick's yet more wondrously pure . 
and zemeckis doesn't resist the urge to use the always-interesting incorporate-actors-into-existing-film-footage effect , which is every bit as seamless here as it was in forrest gump . 
effects , however , are confined to only a few scenes and clearly take a back seat to the drama , emotion , and pure wonder , which zemeckis proved to be quite adept at in gump . 
it says a lot that , in a summer science fiction film such as this , it's not so much the effects that stay with you as it is the drama and the issues that are raised . 
the thought-provoking , two-hour-plus contact is a much-welcome change of pace from summer no-brainers , but the fact that it is a smart film does not mean that it also isn't entertaining . 
for all the interesting questions it asks , the film is still what it's being sold as-- " a journey to the heart of the universe . " 
and what a fascinating , unforgettable journey it is . 
satirical films usually fall into one of two categories : 1 ) long-term satire where everything , including the jokes , is somehow related on a large scale ( i . e . 
 " dr . 
strangelove " ; 2 ) situation satire in which the comedy and themes are derived moment by moment and scene by scene ( i . e . 
 " men in black " ) . 
what's unique about " wag the dog " is that it doesn't necessarily fit either of these descriptions , and yet is both at the same time . 
the result is a clever comedy based on an original , smart premise , even if the focus does tend to wander a bit . 
if there's anything that affects americans the most it's politics and showbusiness . 
in this age of information and technology , we've been so conditioned by the media and the entertainment industry in our ways of perceiving things , it's gotten to the point that we are practically controlled by it . 
we need the media to bring us the most up-to-date news , but we also need the escapism of hollywood to counter all that thinking . 
this film starts off well by quickly establishing these ideas , and then presents an interesting scenario : if politics , the media coverage of politics , and the entertainment industry are so closely related , couldn't someone with the power and authority to manipulate one of the aspects manipulate them all ? 
that's the idea conrad brean ( de niro ) , a professional washington spin doctor , comes up with in order to restore the president's good name who has been accused of child molestation just weeks before the election . 
brean , along with the president's top advisor , winifred ames ( heche ) , fly to california to meet up with hot-shot movie producer stanley motss ( hoffman ) . 
they pitch him an idea to " produce " the image of a war with albania ( it's a country no one's heard of so they people will buy it ) . 
soon the wheels are in motion and the film's riffing satire comes into play . 
we're inundated with the hollywood mind set as motss brings in a number of experts to help manage the situation , such as a folk singer , visual and sound effects technicians , and a modern style expert known as the fad king ( leary ) . 
the initial atmosphere is rich with numerous pop culture references where everything somehow relates to something on tv , in the movies , or in the news . 
the characters' dialogue is witty and funny , although some of the actual jokes and gags seem rather sitcom-esque . 
for example , one scene shows motss and brean's production crew filming an actress portraying a poor albanian refugee . 
motss ordered a kitten for the girl to carry , but instead wound up with a dozen different dogs . 
since it's all computer-enhanced anyway , she ends up cradling a bag of tostitos with the kitten to be inserted later . 
this demonstrates the film's ability to take a relatively ordinary situation and make it smart and funny just through the premise . 
but then there's the gags and one-liners that , although are humorous , seem a little gratuitious in the long run such as motss not being able to remember the actress's name , or , whenever a problem emerges , always responding with , " this is nothing ! " 
by the time the film makes it to the midpoint , everything that is going to happen in terms of plot happens . 
the first act is quickly paced , while the second act contains most of the jokes and is the core of the film . 
every ten minutes or so a new problem crops up that motss and brean must deal with , and it's always fascinating to see what they do and how they do it . 
the screenplay provides good characterization and actually deals with most of the problems head-on in realistic manners . 
however , it does have a tendency to avoid things and shift its focus from the election campaign and false war smokescreen to something a bit off the subject . 
as the third act rolls around the satirical nature becomes more concerned with the situations and less so with the big picture . 
what had started off as a brilliant , somewhat harmless conspiracy to fool the general public begins to seem more like something that would happen in a movie . 
still , the situation comedy is quite funny , especially a montage showing the entire country flinging old shoes into trees to honor sgt . 
willie schumann - a war hero motss and brean concocted . 
truly great satire manages to create for an entertaining story that makes you laugh at the time , but think about afterwards and " wag the dog " at least succeeds in this respect . 
however , in retrospect it seems like so much more could have been done , namely by extending the running time and filling in the plot holes . 
then again , it's a valiant effort . 
after sixteen years francis ford copolla has again returned to his favorite project , making the third installment in the godfather-trilogy . 
this new film has been underrated for no reason . 
it is as intellectual and majestically made as copolla's pervious films . 
it is also more psychological , pessimistic and more tragic than the first two . 
the only regret is the unconvincing performance by the newcomer sofia copolla and some " unfinished " developments of some characters . 
the film elegantly begins with nino rota's recognizable musical score , the beautiful skyscrapers of new york and michael's voice as he is writing a letter to his children : " the only wealth in this world is children . 
more than all money and power on earth , you are my treasure " . 
the year is 1979 and michael corleone has used the time since the ending of " part ii " to make his father's dream come true - making the corleone family legitimate . 
michael sold all his casinos and invests only in gambling . 
constantly haunted by the past , his only reason to live is his children . 
the family has amassed unimaginable wealth , and as the film opens michael corleone ( al pacino ) is being invested with a great honor by the church . 
later that day , at a reception , his daughter announces a corleone family gift to the church and the charities of sicily , " a check in the amount of $100 million . " 
but the corleones are about to find , as others have throughout history , that you cannot buy forgiveness . 
sure , you can do business with evil men inside the church , for all men are fallible and capable of sin . 
but god does not take payoffs . 
the plot of the movie , concocted by coppola and mario puzo in a screenplay inspired by headlines , brings the corleone family into the inner circles of corruption in the vatican . 
there is a moment in " godfather iii " where michael says : " all my life i have been trying to go up in society , where everything was legal . 
but the higher i go , the crookier it becomes . . " 
 . 
visually this film is as spectacular as the first two . 
gordon willis' rich cinematography , carmine copolla's beautiful composition and alex tavoularis' wonderful art direction could not be better . 
but copolla's first two godfather-films were more famous for their deep , intellectual plots , tree dimensional characters and incredible acting , than for their visual perfection . 
the third installment has only the plot and visuals . 
some characters could be much more developed and the acting , although good , never accomplishes to reach the same height of the first two films . 
the biggest miscasting is sofia copolla , who is so unconvincing and unemotional that she manages to ruin several scenes throughout the movie , that could have been grander and more emotional . 
the best performance comes unsurprisingly from al pacino , who should have got a nomination for best actor at the oscars . 
andy garcia is powerful as sonny's son , strong , focused and loyal . 
violence is natural to him . 
he suffers no pangs of conscience when he takes revenge on his family's behalf , and in this he is supposed to be strong in the uncomplicated way don vito corleone was . 
however both kay ( diane keaton ) and connie ( talia shire ) are useless . 
and characters like vito corleone and tom hagen are really missed . 
the good part is that michael is again reunited with old friends , that you remember from the first and second films . 
in the third film michael has become almost like his father , vito in the first film and vincenzo resembles michael when he was much younger . 
this parallel could be more interesting if vincenzo's character was more developed . 
many have pointed out that making the third film , was unnecessary . 
i disagree . 
it is a beautiful film of great importance , completing the tragic saga of the corleone family . 
the first film showed some horrible results of corleone's life . 
it showed michael making a choice ; the second showed a man damning himself for his choices and feeling the impact of changing times . 
a man desperately trying to keep his balance , focus , family and sanity , while everything is crashing all around him . 
the third film is a terrifying conclusion - a result of michael's life . 
the life he chose for himself is like quicksand - one wrong step and you are doomed . 
there is no turning back . 
and no matter how hard you try to get out of it , to free yourself , no matter how powerful and wealthy you are , you are helpless - sinking deeper and deeper till it swallows you completely . 
the beautifully directed last sequence is also the powerful climax of the film , when michael is sitting alone in his chair , left by everyone , surrounded by emptiness and memories of his friends and family members long dead . 
here he dies - alone , miserable and unforgiven 
bruce willis is a type-casted actor . 
in die hard , he played john mcclaine , a rough and tough chicago cop who gets caught in the wrong place at the wrong time . 
again , in pulp fiction , as butch coolidge , an over-the-hill boxer , he steps on the wrong guys toes . 
in luc besson's the fifth element , willis plays korben dallas , a new york cabby who takes in the wrong passenger at the worst possible time . 
a stylish science fiction epic , the fifth element's complex plot begins right away , in the deserts of egypt ( think stargate ) in 1914 . 
an enormous spacecraft lands above a pyramid where the " 5 elements " are stored and takes them away , vowing to return them when the evil comes back . 
cut to present day , which is our future . 
the year is 2023 , and new york is the city . 
the only basic differences between besson's futuristic depiction and the real life new york is that the smog is thicker , the buildings are higher , and the traffic floats ! 
anyway , the " evil " comes back as a ball of fire to wreak havoc on the fair citizens of the earth , so back come the tortoise-like aliens to return the " 5 elements " to earth , in order to defend themselves against the " evil . " 
in the process , however , the ship is intercepted by 2 fighter pods and is destroyed before landing . 
when officials arrive at the site , all that remains is a hand . 
what can you do with a hand ? 
hey , its the 21st century here-dna reconstruction ! 
this hand turns out to belong to a beautiful , but mysterious woman named leeloo ( milla jovovich , dazed and confused ) . 
she escapes and , attempting to escape the police by swan diving off of an enormous skyscraper and crashing through the roof of korben's floating cab . 
it's love at first site , as korben and leeloo elude the lazy-as-always cops . 
when leeloo begins mumbling about a cornelius ( ian holm , night falls on manhattan ) , korben searches the " yellow pages " and delivers her to the door of the good reverend , the only man who knows of her background and duties . 
now , korben , leeloo , and cornelius must journey to a foreign planet to board a cruise ship ( special effects were spectacular here ) to find the remaining four elements . 
it is here , where they discover that they have been followed by the evil jean-baptiste emmanuel zorg ( gary oldman , murder in the first ) . 
he , too , wants possession of the elements , as do a group of pig-like warriors ( think the gamorreans in return of the jedi ) . 
in a spectacular ending , with time running out , leeloo is faced with a problem-why should she save a people who live to destroy each other ? 
the question is a good one , and one that could be pondered . 
but enough of that . 
when korben points out his love for her , leeloo is inclined to become the " 5th element " and save the world from total destruction . 
the fifth element features good performances by willis and holm , an excellent portrayal of a comedic villain ( who reminded me a lot of jack nicholson's the joker in batman ) by one of the masters of villainy , oldman , and a heartfelt offering by relative newcomer jovovich . 
the supporting cast , which includes brion james ( tango & cash ) , tim " tiny " lester ( no holds barred ) , luke perry ( buffy the vampire slayer ) , and chris tucker ( friday ) , added a comedic effect to the film . 
although besson's the fifth element can be criticized for the outlandish use of cliches , it is a solid motion picture with a definite point . 
some other directors ( like anaconda's luis llosa ) should take a lesson from this guy-using ideas from epic motion pictures the right way . 
ideas from star wars and stargate were utilized for the improvement of this film . 
sci-fi fan or not , any movie-lover should see this wonderfully stylish motion picture . 
 , 
there must be some unwritten rule that states , one gets enlightenment not in the way one expects to get enlightenment but in the commitment given to seeking wisdom , even if it is a foolish road one is on and it seems to be leading nowhere . 
in the exotic morocco of 1972 , a 25-year-old english hippie mother , julia ( winslet ) , of two sweet young girls , the 6-year-old lucy ( carrie ) and the 8-year-old bea ( bella ) , has arrived for a year's stay , with the self-absorbed mother oblivious to how her daughters might be adjusting to this foreign experience while she is searching for a change of life from her unfaithful poet husband ( she is not officially married to him ) and her cold one-room london flat , and is sort of looking for the eternal truth in the sunny climate of marrakech . 
at least she says she is , as she is making some attempt to contact a sufi sheikh there who has all the answers . 
she has not planned things out too carefully , having no money , and the trip doesn't seem like it's much fun , more like a misadventure , with some romance with a local moroccan thrown in . 
drugs , a world-wide youthful phenomena during this period , where many westerners came to morocco to smoke the good hashish found there and to live the 'good life' cheaply , and to be in a spot where they did not have to worry about being hassled by the local authorities , even though drugs are illegal there . 
but this is not shown as one of her reasons for being here . 
in this film , the subject of drugs is never broached , only hinted at in an off-handed but slurring way , as the hippie commune is shown in a negative light , strumming on their guitars and bragging about the hits of acid they have taken . 
even the ones coming here for spiritual reasons , to follow the mystical sufis , seem lost following a culture that is far different from where they were coming from . 
the film is based on the novel that contained the autobiographical experiences of sigmund freud's grand-daughter , esther freud , who traveled here in the 1960s with her mother and sister . 
it is written by the director's brother , who has previously directed regeneration , the playboys , and trojan eddie . 
the title of the film comes from the squealing giggles that saying hideous kinky gives the little girls . 
with julia strapped for cash and not receiving a needed check her husband often forgets to send her , she is prevented from seeing the greatest living sufi who is located in algeria ; so instead , she meets an acrobat street performer in the bazaar , bilal ( said taghmaoui ) . 
he becomes her lover , taking the place of her husband as a father figure for the girls . 
the girls readily accept him , and there is no big-to-do made about their openly sexual relationship , but the girls really don't know what to make of the relationship . 
it especially bothers bea , who is embarrassed by her mother's loose attitude and wants to go home . 
things go surprisingly sour when bilal takes them to stay in his small village . 
it seems only that bilal's charm is matched by his shiftlessness , as he has a wife who still lives there . 
this scene didn't make too much sense as to why he would take them there knowing the situation , unless the uneducated man was totally uneducated in the customs of his people , also . 
but i doubt that . 
the family is now stuck without money in a backward area trying to decide what to do next , as they hitch a ride away from there with a truck driver who nearly kills them when he falls asleep by the wheel . 
lucy takes it all in stride and has a good disposition for travel , while bea just wants to go to a school and learn something and be a 'normal' girl . 
the beauty of marrakech is matched by the terrific performance of kate winslet , as the film accurately encapsulates the timeless city and its bustling street scenes , expansive views , illustrious mosques , and grand sunsets . 
kate enacts the feel of what it was like to be a westerner , living out the countercultural experiences while awaiting to gather her sensibilities again and was fortunate enough to be able to go home the better off for her experiences , as many a drop-out reluctantly had to do after their stay ran out of money and purpose . 
the background music from groups like america and jefferson airplane , provided further nostalgia for this easy to look at and easy to grasp film . 
the only hope was that the two innocent girls would not be permanently harmed while on this sojourn , a venture that should be reserved only for those of college age or older who choose to go there for themselves . 
the family's travel , which is on the edge , has julia waking up screaming from dreams that are bleakly haunting ; but , when she gets up , all there is , is this splendid emptiness all around her and a vacuous life that is starting to bother her . 
that marrakech is disarmingly gorgeous and that london is old hat to her , is starting to wear thin in her thoughts . 
it will dawn on her , when bea takes ill , as she reflects on what the sufi guru tells her , whom she finally meets and is driven to tears in his presence . 
he is the guru who replaced the one she wanted to see but who died before she got a chance to see him . 
the new guru is grounded in reality , something she is not grounded in , and seems to tell her what she couldn't comprehend from anyone else , even comforting her , by telling her that her tears are memories- a gift from god . 
the film's weakness was the empty feeling i got from watching the story unfold in its risk free tenor ( she was there basically to be just escaping from her situation ) and how unappealing the love affair seemed between bilal and julia . 
the storyline about a helpless single parent , detracted from the vibrant experiences many others of her same baby-boom generation had during their trip to morocco , who were taken in by the mystical culture of sufism , a teaching that has a lot to offer its followers , contrary to the impression the film might give , seemed to pass her by . 
her knowledge of that trip is only surface deep , at best . 
she perhaps would have been better off not taking the kids along , smoking some hashish , and have been less assured of herself but to have behaved more like a hippie and she wouldn't have been so uptight all the time and had some fun on her journey . 
after all , the mystical trip is the journey . 
the film's strength is in how all the characters are shown for what they are , and no one is that good or that bad , or judged too harshly for their shortcomings . 
bilal is unreliable but is capable of generosity . 
the little girls are precocious but they are lovable . 
julia , the cornerstone the film is built on , is a mother who cares about the children but doesn't know how to take care of them without unintentionally harming them . 
she was trying to escape from reality and that by returning to london , she has another chance to see if she can find the key to this world or whatever world she is looking for and should no longer have nightmares about where she's at . 
this is a very freudian way to look at things , as this sudden realization , that things are not right puts an an end to her eastern hippie odyssey , at least , for the time being . 
and , after all is said and done , who's to say if the children are also not better off for surviving their experiences , just like she probably was ! 
did claus von bulow try to kill his wife sunny in their newport mansion ? 
that is the question reversal of fortune asks you to consider as it opens in a hospital ward , with a comatose sunny von bulow . 
she is the main narrator of the film , in a narrative trick that was extraordinarily risky for schroeder . 
the dramatic trick works , as sunny von bulow narrates a compelling story of murder , sex , unhappiness , and a lawyer's moral dilemma as he takes a case he thinks he cannot win . 
jeremy irons is claus von bulow , in what is his finest role , and one of the most devastingly evil performances in history . 
he is as hated as any man alive , as cold as a cucumber . 
his remorse for his wife's comatose condition is nonexistant , and it is no wonder that even his children have difficulty accepting his version of what happened during christmas , 1980 . 
the background to the case is such . 
during christmas of 1979 , sunny von bulow fell into a deep coma from which she recovered and awoke . 
the same situation occured in 1980 , only sunny never woke , and probably never will . 
when examined , it was found that she had 14 times the normal amount of insulin within her blood . 
claus von bulow is then accused of attempted murder by his stepson , convicted , and freed on bail . 
he immediately hires alan dershowitz , the renowed harvard law professor , to acquit him . 
ron silver is magnificent as a moral lawyer who cannot stand what has happened to him . 
we follow him through two very different cases ; the case of the johnson case , where two innocent kids are standing on death row for a crime they didn't commit , and von bulow , who he still hasn't figured out . 
dershowitz doesn't know what happened to sunny , and he is extremely hesitant to take the case . 
nevertheless , he does , based on certain things which happen during the investigative process that deeply upset him . 
together with a group of law students , dershowitz concocts a defense and ultimately get the verdict reversed . 
silver's performance is one of a handful of solid roles in this deep film . 
schroeder directs on many different levels , with multiple plot lines which blend in wonderfully in the mind of alan dershowitz . 
there are flaws ; at times , the film gets overly theatrical . 
yet , due to glenn close's troubled and brutally honest performance as sunny von bulow , the use of her comatose body as a narrator works here fairly well . 
the flashbacks are good , but at times schroeder doesn't fill in the blanks . 
the movie could have benefited with the increased attention of certain developments during the film , and it could have used a better ending . 
the film progressed wonderfully before ending suddenly , without any intelligent conclusion . 
the supporting characters are often neglected , and dershowitz's team should have been allowed to grow character wise , but schroeder over-simplifies the story and the characters . 
yet , for all these flaws , the film is deeply engrossing because of irons . 
as von bulow , he is brutally evil . 
anti-semitic , prejudiced , arrogant , protective , he is a rotten , lying monster , whose conviction may have been wrong legally , but morally he was to blame . 
irons plays him to a cold perfection , with pathetic attempts to gain moral support for his claims to innocence . 
he is an adulterous liar and a cheat who in all likelihood committed the murder . 
however , the genius of reversal of fortune comes in its distinction between moral culpability and legal responsibility . 
there is no doubt von bulow is responsible for his wife's death by years of neglect and coldness . 
however , legally , did he do the murder ? 
schroeder dares the viewer to make up his own mind . 
with all the character flaws , reversal of fortune is an engrossing puzzle because it is intelligent ; he wants the viewer to make up his own mind . 
schroeder taunts the viewer with contradictory revelations , and then mentions that the answer to this compelling puzzle shall be revealed when we join sunny von bulow , in death . 
for all the failed dramatic theatrics , this is one that works beautifully . 
we don't know what happened . 
that sense of legal ambiguousness , along with von bulow's obvious moral guilt , is why reversalf fortune works . 
in the end , von bulow is as sadistic as ever . 
irons is haunting , and that is why reversal of fortune is so good . 
driving miss daisy takes its sweet time to tell a small , intimate story . 
it's a quiet film , a slow film , a deliberate film . 
but if you're patient with it , the movie offers innumerable rewards , such as a pair of self-assured performances by morgan freeman and jessica tandy . 
driving miss daisy is based on alfred uhry's pulitzer-prize winning play of the same name , which first opened in new york four years ago . 
the play has garnered international acclaim with productions in chicago , los angeles , london , vienna , norway , and the soviet union . 
uhry himself wrote the screenplay for the film adaptation of driving miss daisy ; he also penned the wonderful sleeper , mystic pizza . 
the film , like the play , is set in atlanta , georgia , and it revolves around two people in their twilight years : a cranky , 70-something jewish widow who feels guilty about her wealth and a 60-something black man who becomes her chauffeur . 
the movie relies on character , rather than plot , to propel the action . 
in fact , the movie has no discernible plot in the traditional sense ; it doesn't present a linear story in which all the scenes flow together . 
rather , driving miss daisy is made up of the routine activities of everyday life : shopping , listening to the radio , visiting the cemetery , eating fried chicken , and so on . 
the film also incorporates into the story line actual events in atlanta's history , including the 1958 bombing of the temple ( the city's oldest jewish congregation ) and a 1965 ceremony honoring the reverend dr . martin luther king , jr . 
the story begins in 1948 with daisy ( tandy ) crashing and wrecking her packard as she pulls out of her driveway . 
the insurance company cancels her insurance , and her son , boolie , decides to hire her a chauffeur . 
freeman , reprising his role from the play , plays the chauffeur , hoke . 
the film chronicles the warm friendship that slowly but surely blossoms between the chauffeur and his reluctant passenger . 
driving miss daisy is a movie about human nature , aging , prejudice , and a great many other things , but more than anything it's about a relationship : one that spans 25 years , 4 cars , the advent of civil rights , and one gravely important 33 cent can of salmon . 
daisy is strong-willed and set in her ways , and , from the outset , she is utterly opposed to the idea of having a chauffeur . 
initially , she treats hoke with contempt , refusing to let him drive her anywhere . 
once she does get in the car , daisy is the ultimate back-seat driver . 
to make matters worse , she is extremely self-conscious about what others might think if they were to see her being escorted around town by a hired hand . 
eventually , however , daisy is worn down by hoke's good-natured charm and infectious cheer ; she softens and opens up to him . 
tandy plays the part of daisy exceedingly well , but unfortunately this feisty , cantankerous character is just a smidgen too commonplace . 
we've seen this woman countless times before in other incarnations , from on golden pond to cocoon . 
nevertheless , tandy manages to put enough of a personal stamp on the familiar character to make it her own . 
freeman , as hoke , on the other hand , gives the more distinctive of the two performances . 
there is something profoundly moving about the way hoke maintains his pride and dignity in a society which forbids him from using public rest rooms because of his skin color . 
hoke is uneducated and illiterate , but freeman always suggests that there is something more to this man , an inner strength beneath the simpleton exterior . 
both freeman and tandy seem to be in their element , in full command of their natural charisma . 
they flirt with the camera and dominate scenes without overtly calling attention to themselves . 
they bring a light touch to their humorous banter and to the movie's gentle humor . 
at the same time , tandy and freeman provide more than a few moments of truly poignant drama . 
in his first dramatic role , dan aykroyd is surprisingly chubby and unexpectedly effective as boolie , tandy's loving and patient son . 
drama seems to agree with aykroyd ; taking a break from comedy seems like a good move for the actor , especially when you consider the wretched comedies he has made recently ( ghostbusters ii , the great outdoors , my stepmother is an alien ) . 
the only other significant characters in the film are daisy's housekeeper , idella , marvelously played by esther rolle ( " good times " ) , and boolie's pretentious wife , played by patti lupone . 
under the direction of bruce beresford ( crimes of the heart , tender mercies ) , driving miss daisy seems a bit stagey now and again . 
but fortunately , beresford never forgets he's shooting a movie , and accordingly , he offers plenty of striking cinematic touches , such as gorgeous shots of flowers , trees , and tomatoes . 
in adapting driving miss daisy from the stage to the screen , the filmmakers have achieved a delicate subtlety . 
uhry understands that what his characters do not say can be just as important as what they do say . 
beresford wisely exercises restraint in the film's dramatic moments . 
the movie tugs at your heart , but it never goes for the jugular . 
the only sap in driving miss daisy is in the trees . 
when people are talking about good old times , they actually want to make some bad times look better . 
nice example of such behaviour is contemporary attitude of popular media towards the 1970s . 
for new generations , superseventies are the lost golden age of chic fashion , cult tv shows and sexual freedom unchecked by aids . 
for people who actually had to live in that period , it was the gloomy decade , marked by lost ideals of 1968 , rampant inflation and unemployment , international terrorism , fuel crisis and loss of faith in almost anything that previous generation stood for . 
feelings of despair and nihilism found its reflections in many films of that era . 
martin scorsese's taxi driver , which symbolises both the glory and despair of the seventies , is most celebrated of them all . 
the movie's protagonist is travis bickle ( robert de niro ) , 26-year old former marine who takes the job of taxi driver in new york city because he can't sleep at nights . 
the job gets him exposed to the dark side of apocalyptic megalopolis , and travis gradually gets alienated from the rest of world . 
the only bright spot in his life is betsy ( cybil sheperd ) , attractive woman working in senator palantine's presidential campaign . 
their date ends as humiliating fiasco because travis makes fatal mistake by inviting her to porno movie theatre . 
losing his only link to better side of the world , travis gradually descends into psychosis , becoming convinced that his mission in life is to battle scum on the street . 
he purchases a formidable arsenal of guns and begins physical preparations for the inevitable conflict . 
that conflict finally comes when he takes personal interest in iris ( jodie foster ) , 12-year old prostitute who temporarily took refuge in his taxi . 
as many great movies that got cult status through the years , taxi driver became the object of many interpretations . 
for some critics and scholars it is an exploration of universal subjects that date back to dostoyevski - loss of moral compass in a bleak reality of dirty , overpopulated industrial cities ; the story could have been set in 19th century same as in our times . 
for others , the movie uses raskolnikov-like figure in order to portray burning problems of 1970s america - its apparent inability to deal with the consequences of rapid social changes that occurred in previous decade . 
brilliant performance of robert de niro in role of a lifetime can give arguments for both sides . 
his travis bickle has a lot in common with most of the average viewers of today - many of us share his feelings of isolation , loneliness and outrage towards crime , drugs , prostitution and senseless street violence . 
his pathetic attempts to establish some kind of human connection with the people around him , sometimes in most unusual circumstances - like with secret service agents , pimps or job interviewers - make him a person too goofy to be the hero , and too pathetic to be the classic villain . 
however , most of the average viewers are sensible enough to recognise the tin line that separate concerned citizens or troubled souls from fanatical madmen . 
but despite anything , average viewer at the end actually cheers for travis - his crusade against " scum " is something that average person wants , but doesn't have a stomach/lack of brains to do it . 
while de niro's travis might come in and out of particular times and places , other persons that appear in the film ( mostly played by the character actors ) give it distinctively 1970s feel . 
wizzard ( played by peter boyle ) presents the only link with america's better past ; but only because he is the oldest taxi driver in company and therefore everybody assumes that he " knows stuff " . 
his obvious inadequacy in giving advice to troubled travis illustrates the inability of pre-1960s generations to find answers to the problems of gloomy decade . 
other characters , on the other hand , show the bad side of new age . 
matthew " sport " ( keitel , who befriended real-life pimps in other to prepare for his role of a lifetime ) is dressed like a hippie ; iris found excuse for her escape to the world of drugs and child prostitution in a ideology of counterculture . 
porno movies , that should be the element of new times of sexual freedom , are too much even for supposedly " liberated " betsy . 
even the politicians , like senator palantine , are lost in post-vietnam and post-watergate mess ; his broad and senseless " messages " that cover the lack of any serious program can't fool even such idiots like travis . 
the past is gone , the present is bad , and even the future seems bleak , and the feeling of pessimism can't be washed away even by ironic happy end . 
travis and his world found themselves in a desperate situation , and martin scorsese uses the best of his cinematic skills in order to spill the gloom of schrader's screenplay into the silver screen . 
new york city in the night is portrayed as a hell on earth , and the red light and steam coming out of sewers give it surreal , almost stygian atmosphere . 
another important element of the atmosphere is score of great bernard herrman , whose efficient use of jazz elements gives some melancholy that softens the brutality of motion picture . 
one of the greatest ironies of taxi driver is the fact that the movie was , same as his protagonist , famous for the wrong reason . 
instead of receiving cult status because of his artistic merits , for many years it was tabloid-fodder because of hinckley and his real-life re-enactment of events in the movie . 
now , more than two decades later , when some other " life imitating art " incidents get more attention , we can finally enjoy taxi driver in all its artistic glory . 
note : ordinarily , moviereviews . org will not give away any critical plot points of a film that could be interpreted as " spoilers . " 
however , being that music of the heart is based on a true story and that moviereviews . org 
feels the film can not be properly credited without such revelations , plot giveaways will appear in the following review . 
if this bothers you , please note the 3 star rating of the film and stop reading now . 
 " what does it take to play carnegie hall ? 
practice . " 
it takes two hours for music of the heart to " play carnegie hall , " both figuratively and literally . 
like the children it portrays , the movie starts from the dark realms of awful cinema and works its way up to a show-stopping performance at the legendary concert hall . 
roberta guaspari ( academy award winner meryl streep ) has two kids , a husband who left her and 50 violins she bought from a small shop in the mediterranean . 
her life desperately needs a jump start and gets one when she meets a man who introduces her to a job as a music teacher at an east harlem elementary school . 
she soon finds her job is on the rocks as the men in her life continue to rotate through revolving doors . 
that is the pattern-like plot of this production . 
ultimately , the film chooses a zero-sum answer to these problems and finds her music career at an all-time high when the men in her life finally vanish . 
the first hour of music of the heart is rather painful . 
roberta's character lacks development and consequently seems to be flat . 
also lacking depth is the film's " bad guy , " a narrow-minded music teacher ( josh pais ) who rejects roberta out of principle ( the movie never explains exactly which principle that is ) and conveniently comes and goes from the plot according to when it might be dramatic to have a villain around . 
the next 15 minutes of the film are mediocre . 
they are highlighted by one child's return to roberta's class ( coming after the great old hollywood scene where he explains be can't be around anymore because " my mom said . . . " ) and a glowing concert . 
not knowing the running time , you may expect the credits to role at this point . 
but they don't . 
instead the film uses the next 45 minutes to finish its journey from bad to mediocre to excellent . 
director wes craven , known for his works of horror , uses some old sentimental tricks to get the audience tearing . 
one romantic break up scene is highlighted by the classic " but . . . 
last night . . . " 
and roberta's two children also have textbook conflicts with their single mother regarding their father's absence . 
the city of harlem plays a strong role in the movie . 
roberta's mother is initially reluctant to see her daughter move to that part of town and the film does nothing to combat that stereotype . 
the noise tracks for these scenes are dominated by sirens ; predictably one of roberta's students is gunned down and killed off screen . 
one thing the film does lack is subtlety . 
the fact that a little boy was playing " we shall overcome " on his violin after the aforementioned shooting was a cute and discreet reference . 
the fact that the entire orchestra begins to play it over and over soon after is an overdone reference that shows how little credit he gives the audience . 
 ( of course , in horror films the foreshadowing and between-the-line moments are meant to be overdone , so perhaps he too is just learning to play the game . ) 
even with all its flaws , music of the heart is a beautiful film . 
that is not an excuse for the movie's poor beginning . 
but as i watched the scenes in carnegie hall , i thought of some of the great acts that have taken that stage . 
in december of 1979 a comedian named andy kaufman put on a show that will forever be remembered as one of the most original in theatre history . 
the performance included a dead-on elvis impression , robin williams in disguise and a moment at the end when kaufman announced he would take the whole audience out for milk and cookies . 
so , how did this comic genius choose to open the show of his life ? 
he had a character named tony clifton take the stage for the sole purpose of irritating and angering the audience . 
perhaps it is okay for music of the heart to start off rusty because just as kaufman had santa's favorite food , this movie has an amazing finale . 
seen april 16 , 1999 at 10 p . m . at crossgates cinema 18 ( guilderland , n . y . ) , theater #15 , by myself for free using my hoyts' critic's pass . 
[theater rating : * * * 1/2 : very good seats , sound and picture] 
do you realize that every time you encounter a new person you've just become part of a story ? 
everyone has their own life story , both past and present , and every time two or more interact , they become part of each others' story ( not necessarily an important or even significant part , but a part nevertheless ) . 
that seems to be the basic theory behind `go , ' where several characters' chance encounters all effect each other in extreme ways . 
in order to test this theory screenwriter john august and director doug liman assemble a cast of characters that wouldn't usually be the types to have an entire film revolve around them , such as a teenage supermarket cashier , a bottom-of-the-drug-food-chain dealer and two struggling soap opera actors . 
these types of characters might not sound all that original , but consider that they will all be somehow effected by a strip club bouncer and his psychotic father , a mid-level drug dealer , a narc obsessed with multi-level-marketing , horny wedding guests , a zen lovemaker , two shrimp-scarfers and a cute normal teenage girl to round things out . 
how they will all come together is the process the film deals with . 
i'd imagine the concept to the film started out as the creators' testing themselves to see if they could actually pull it off and the outcome is a terrific achievement in filmmaking and the craft of fiction in general . 
the film starts out as anything else , with little indication of what's to come . 
we meet ronna ( polley ) , a depressed los angeles checkout girl who doesn't seem to have much desire to do anything except work just to pay her rent . 
she's not very charming , especially to her customers , but this is played mostly for laughs rather than characterization and it works . 
maybe this is because she's not a very afeminite character , but she's far from masculine - a creative character indeed . 
things start to progress when ronna reluctantly agrees to take the hours of the goofy , hyperactive , yet likable simon ( askew ) , an english teen into vices for the sake of the experiences . 
this agreement starts a three-pronged storyline as it allows simon to go to las vegas for the weekend with his friends and in turn drags ronna and her friends into buying and selling an experimental drug . 
the process of which will not only bring ronna close to being arrested but also to death . 
nearly the same can be said for two other characters , zack ( mohr ) and adam ( wolf ) , who we don't think much of when they first appear as supporting characters , but later will become major players to the film's makeup - another process used by the filmmakers to elaborate on the theory of how significant insignificant interaction might be . 
once the pace is picked up the film really begins to show its mettle . 
when the title screen `ronna' is flashed shortly after the aforementioned turning point scene , it's clear this film isn't going to employ the standard linear method of storytelling . 
considering how good it is up until that point , it's a long overdue change of pace needed in movies today . 
and so the film begins to take shape , first by following ronna and her friends on a one-night adventure that begins with a drug deal instigated by zack and adam ( who were actually looking for simon ) , which doesn't exactly go as planned , but that's what keeps it all so interesting . 
the second storyline starts at the same moment as ronna's story , but this time the camera chooses to follow simon instead . 
simon and his three friends head to ? vegas for a night on the town and in the process experience things they never would have imagined . 
the third arc , about zack and adam , again overlaps with ronna's story telling much of the same story but from a completely different angle . 
we're shown things we never would have expected were going on while following ronna . 
and many of the events that do happen to ronna because of zack and adam aren't even their fault - they just happened to be where they were when they were . 
i'd really like to dissect each of the three storylines and especially how the film wraps up in the end , but that would take up too much time and space and spoil everything for those who haven't seen the film . 
perhaps the greatest element to the film is its constant surprises and unpredictability , and not due to plot twists or a confusing screenplay , just through great filmmaking . 
still , i can list and analyze nearly everything the film does so well : 
 ? direction : trying to piece together such a complex story is no easy task and for a rookie filmmaker such as liman , it's a great accomplishment . 
he doesn't just depict a story , he wraps us up in it all , pulling us into the fray so that we experience every high and low . 
 ? screenplay : besides being chiseled with detail and creative in general , it's clear the script has been inspired by many sources , with both obvious and subtle references , yet it never screams `rip-off . ' 
 ? tone/mood : where other hollywood films have failed to bring the charm of the independents to the mainstream , this one is able to create its own sense of the macabre . 
it's not overly-dark or twisted and the comedy isn't so satirical for it to be considered a black comedy , more like `macabre light . ' 
 ? cinematography/art direction : able to photograph both the intense and the lighthearted in the same manner . 
 ? characterization : for nearly every character introduced , no matter what role they play in the big picture , we're able to get a sense of who they are , what they're thinking and how they came to be in their situations . 
even when their actions are surprising , it never seems very out of synch . 
 ? performances : every actor nails their role ( see above ) . 
 ? theme/theory : the film doesn't seem to be concerned with conveying any kind of political or social messages , instead , it's more of a philosophical experiment . 
in fact , it might not have meant to do that intentionally , but there definitely is something existential to it all . 
 . . . and to think that `go' is just a big comedy and adventure ! 
 ( 4/23/99 ) [see also : `the big lebowski , ' `clerks , ' `jackie brown , ' `pulp fiction , ' `true romance ; ' also by liman : `swingers'] 
mars attacks ! 
 ( 1996 ) - c : jack nicholson , glenn close , annette bening , martin short , danny devito , rod steiger , pierce brosnan , sarah jessica parker , michael j . fox , jim brown , pam grier , joe don baker , natalie portman , christina applegate , lisa marie , tom jones . 
this is director tim burton's finest film to date . 
many will compare this tale of martians who invade earth to independence day , but even though the stories are similar , they really are two distinctly different films . 
however as a whole , mars attacks is much more entertaining than id4 , and i loved id4 . 
you really have to be in the right frame of mind to enjoy this film . 
it is completely wacked-out and unlike anything you've ever seen . 
once the silly tone of the film is set , it's easy to just sit back and throw logic out the window because logic and comedy just don't mix . 
the plot is simple : martians invade the earth . 
but it's different than any other invasion film . 
usually it's the evil aliens versus the heroic humans . 
this time however , it's the goofy aliens versus the equally goofy humans . 
the martians , who are all computer generated , are just about the funniest things i've seen in a long time . 
they look funny , they move funny , and their " language " is hilarious . 
and about the special effects . 
the effects in mars attacks ! 
are just about the most flawless ones i've seen to date . 
the computer animation of the martians combined with the goofy personalities they are given makes them seem 100% real . 
there are just a couple of scenes that don't work , mainly those involving sarah jessica parker and pierce brosnan on board an alien ship . 
also , glenn close overacts tremendously in her ( thankfully ) very limited screen time , so much so that i actually applauded silently when her character meets her demise . 
but there are many big laughs in the film , as i said , if you are in the right mood . 
could it have been funnier ? 
certainly . 
was it funny enough ? 
yes . 
was i entertained ? 
absolutely . 
on a personal note , i'd like to thank whomever cast rod steiger ( my favorite actor ) in the film as war-crazy general decker . 
finally , after many very small parts in direct to video garbage and minor tv roles , steiger is back on the big screen in a real movie that many people will see . 
while he's not given the type of role that you can give a real " performance " in , he does the job well and has some good lines of dialogue . 
the preview audience i saw the film with really seemed to enjoy him . 
when i was asked to see this movie with a friend , my initial reaction was ? not hugh grant ! ' 
i was perhaps wrong to be so harsh , but after his insidious flirtation with a street hooker , i just could not picture him in any romantic lead . 
what makes this movie a wonderful experience is not the fact it stars hugh , but because it stars julia and carries with it a brilliantly written script . 
this writer richard curtis , whose exceptional first work ? four weddings and funeral' shows us that he is a master in the domain of the romantic comedy , with splashes of drama thrown in between . 
hugh and his hair , is almost identical to the character that made him famous in ? four weddings' . 
he plays an ordinary guy who is down and out on his luck . 
unfortunately , he is type cast in this role , but fortunately it works well for him in this movie . 
if only he would dither a little less . 
julia knows this role well . 
the glamorous movie star who is searching for true love . 
there are moments in this movie , that you almost weep for her pain felt loneliness . 
how sad it must be to be so wealthy and beautiful , but to have no one to share it with . 
the writer deals with difficult issues of love and social class on various levels . 
how differences in social standing can make it almost impossible for love to grow in such a harsh environment . 
how the media can be as cruel as it can be attentive , and how fulfilment in life and love can be found in forgiveness and sacrifice . 
you'd think it would be easy to spoof star trek , but try spoofing it without cruelly mocking it . 
that's a bit more difficult . 
the farfetched sci-fi series is , after all , enormously popular , what with its gigantic fan base and ongoing installments both on television and in movies . 
if you're not nice to it , you lose . 
galaxy quest is to star trek what mel brooks's spaceballs was to star wars , an affectionate , riotously funny parody that freely takes jabs at various elements of its subject but never seems mean-spirited or malintentioned . 
 " the show's been cancelled , but the journey is far from over . " 
that is the current tagline of " galaxy quest , " a star trek - type show that's no longer produced but lives on forever in reruns . 
it also lives on in conventions , gatherings of the show's obsessive fans who never fail to dress in " galaxy quest " costumes and ask absurdly logical questions about its delirious technobabble . 
jason nesmith ( tim allen ) played " commander peter quincy taggart " on the show and is the only one of the cast who still gets excited about the gigs they have to do . 
the attitudes of the rest -- tommy webber ( daryl mitchell , gwen demarco ( sigourney weaver ) , fred kwan ( tony shalhoub ) and alexander dane ( alan rickman ) -- range from indifference to utter contempt . 
dane , who played a spock-like alien , is especially disgusted , considering himself above his demeaning job and stubbornly refusing to recite his character's cheesy trademark line " by grabthar's hammer , you shall be avenged " ( or something like that ) for his die-hard fans . 
one day , nesmith is greeted by an especially fanatical group of " galaxy quest " followers . 
they are actually aliens from a planet known as thermia . 
they have mistaken the " galaxy quest " episodes for historical documentation of actual heroic space travel . 
the next day , the thermians whisk nesmith away to a spaceship to help them defeat the evil sarris ( named , in one of the film's only mean-spirited gags , after village voice film critic andrew sarris ) . 
nesmith thinks it is only an elaborate gig , and sort of blows it off , but when he is transported -- or i should say shot -- back to earth in a rather celestial manner , he believes . 
next thing the cast knows , they are being dragged by nesmith to this spaceship . 
of course , they all think he is out of his mind and once he does convince them that there really is a spaceship , what they want to do is get out of there as fast as the transporters will take them . 
but after some persuading , they stay on to fight the icky sarris and find a way to provide a peaceful existance for the flailing thermians . 
i was quite surprised how well this comedy , which came off as utterly brainless from its marketing campaign , worked . 
taking shots at both the obvious and not-so-obvious elements of star trek and its fandom , galaxy quest never goes for cheap laughs , opting instead for broad but smart parody . 
nothing is safe -- not the cliches , not the fans , not the absurd taglines -- but on the other hand , everything is safe , since galaxy quest treats its subject with utter respect and sometimes even subtle admiration . 
the highlight of the movie is tony shalhoub's fred a . k . a . tech sergeant chen who , when in character , is the complete opposite of scotty from the original star trek . 
while scotty , who was the technician for the enterprise would constantly yell " i need more power down here captain ! " , 
chen's cry for help is more to the tune of " the core , like , won't take it or something . " 
it's a hoot , but it doesn't stop there : weaver , whose character has the menial task of repeating everything the computer says and rickman , with his relentlessly holier-than-thou attitude aren't far behind . 
galaxy quest succeeds as a funny parody of star trek and while it's not a masterpiece -- it tends to falter in its more serious moments -- it is immensely entertaining fluff and excellent counterprogramming to all the sober oscar contenders being released this holiday season . 
by grabthar's hammer , this is a hell of a movie . 
in my review of there's something about mary , i said something to the effect of " laughter isn't everything . " 
i now need to make a brief addendum to my postulate : laughter isn't everything , unless i'm watching a jim abrahams film . 
see , spoofs are easy with me . 
i love movies , and i love movies that make fun of movies that i love . 
sometimes i'm the only one in the theater laughing . 
sometimes i laugh so hard that i embarass myself because my laugh is so high-pitched in comparison to my speaking voice ( it cuts right through everyone else's laughter ) . 
sometimes i laugh so much that my cheekbones are sore by the end of the film . 
abraham's latest film , mafia ! , induced this kind of hysteria upon me . 
it's gotten some mediocre reviews , but , hey , i'm the guy who laughs at everything . 
there may be a lot of jokes that flop in this film , but there are far more that work , and i laughed so frequently that the failed jokes usually occurred as i was recovering from the previous bout of giddy madness . 
i enjoy films like this because not one second of it is serious or thought-provoking . 
most lighweight films that pose as comedies try to do other things , like develop characters , shape stories , and other such nonsense . 
mafia ! 
has no pretentions about characters or story , and it exists for no other reason than to make people laugh . 
the film begins on the perfect high note , with a mockery of the opening of casino . 
our hero ( jay mohr ) is seen walking from a casino and getting into his car , which subsequently explodes and sends him flying through the air against a backdrop of flowing fire . 
to describe the story of mafia ! 
is absurd and pointless , but i will mention that it basically follows the framework of the godfather films , with a lot of casino references inserted throughout . 
along the way , the parodies seem arbitrary , and rarely victimize mob films : pictures like the english patient , forrest gump , and jaws undergo severe and hilarious bashing . 
movies like this rely on just a few things , but the most important element is direction . 
abrahams has been down this path many times before ( hot shots ! , top secret ! , airplane ! , and any other film with an exclamation point in the title ) , and so i hold most of the success of mafia ! 
to his experience . 
he takes just the right attitude in each scene , and manages to wring at least a bit laughter out of even the most oddly placed references ( one inexplicable moment seems like it wants to make fun of titanic , but it never develops ) . 
the actors are all energetic , which helps a lot with the tone of the film . 
mohr ( suicide kings , paulie ) , who is quickly becoming one of my favorite actors , is so good here . 
he looks like he's having so much fun that he's containing his laughter in every scene ( watch his face in the sequence by the swimming pool ) . 
he's probably the only performer in the cast who manages to urge laughter without the help of the material . 
lloyd bridges does a decent imitation of brando's godfather , while pamela gidley is dead-on in a full-blown mockery of sharon stone . 
the hard thing about writing reviews for comedies is that i'm supposed to give examples of things and be specific . 
unfortunately , i was so constantly blindsided by laughter during mafia ! 
that i can't remember a lot of what made me laugh . 
but that's a good sign : mafia ! 
is so funny that i wasn't even given time to apply any of the scenes to memory . 
i laughed so hard that it shut off my brain . 
i know that doesn't sound particularly complimentary , but when watching a dumb comedy like this , the first thing i want to do is shut off my brain . 
finally , a film that does this for me . 
showgirls is the second major outing for the production team of pual verhoeven , director , and joe eszterhas , writer . 
their last effort , basic instinct , played like the most sumptuous of classic hitchcock , with a dash of raw sex and sensuality that made it come across with a hit like curry-spiced tabasco sauce ; a dish not to everyone's taste , but certainly a well-crafted movie . 
possibly that movie's greatest strength was that the most important events happened offstage , prior to the movie , during the movie , and after the movie . . . 
and that , after bringing all the plotlines together neatly , it left the viewer with full knowledge of what * would * happen in the characters' future , so there was no need to film it . 
there was actually about four hours' worth of screen story there , but eszterhas found ways to get it all on-screen in two , by leading his audience into analyzing what was really going on ; and by still holding their interest with clever misdirection and false trails . 
the major elements that made basic instinct work so well are present in showgirls . 
we have attractive , sympathetic , but still highly repellent characters ; we have shows for the eyes and the ears , plotlines that play on several levels , we have beautifully delineated characters who are drawn from life and very believable , and we have a story of an innocent ( who may not be so innocent ) who's trying to play straight , trying to improve her station in life , who slips into behaving the way those around her do . . . 
but recovers with a flourish , and quits a winner . 
in this sense , the movie is a bit of a departure for verhoeven , who's not known for treating his characters well ; but nomi , the part played by elizabeth berkley , definitely opts out of the game in a positive way , and we're left feeling good about her future . 
this is not one of the great movies , but it's far better than we'd been led to expect by all the negative pre-release publicity . 
verhoeven got his first oscar nomination in 1971 , and in the last quarter-century has pushed farther and farther , experimenting with the socially-acceptable limits to movie-making . 
his most recent three movies , robocop , total recall , and basic instinct , have been a progression of back-door access to american culture , moving from the fantastic through the merely psychotic to the underlying basic drives ; and now he's exploring the sleeze . 
this movie may be the first movie ever made for which the director's contract contained a specific provision that he would not have to deliver an r rated movie . 
 ( verhoeven had to cut several parts of basic instinct to get an r rating , although his original version is available on video . ) 
many reviewers have taken the politically-correct stance that any movie which uses naked ladies as scenery is a bad thing ; but they miss the fact that this movie is not about naked ladies , it's about people in an environment where naked ladies are common , and why such an environment should exist . 
it's about the scum who use other people as power-trip toys , and the need to escape their power . 
it's about a world where sex is nothing and normal human values don't pertain ; and the lack of sexual excitement and passionate heat in even the most blatant scenes is something of an accomplishment . 
an nc-17 movie which isn't sexually exciting says a great deal about the phoniness and emptiness of a social stratum where sex has been robbed of any kind of beauty , power , or value . 
the one scene in the movie that * could * have been a good sex scene , berkley and maclachlan in a swimming pool , is not exciting , because by then we already know his character is a callous manipulator . 
if anything , it's a rape scene with a victim who's been duped into cooperation . 
you don't make a movie about the history of black people in america without using a few black actors ; you don't make a movie about world war ii without a few guns going off and a few people getting killed ; and you don't make a movie about las vegas showgirls without showing a few las vegas showgirls . . . 
and in an awful lot of vegas shows , an awful lot of ladies wear very little clothing . 
this is a legitimate portrayal of a rather seamy side of the entertainment industry , in a town where sex is simply a negotiable commodity . 
showgirls de-glamorizes the las vegas show and sex industries with great effectiveness . 
nomi is played , in a very good performance , by elizabeth berkley , who gives us a solid picture of a woman with limited talents who's at the end of her rope , desperate to live a life better than the one she's known . 
she has nothing to market except her body and her limited dancing ability , and is trying desperately not to to be a hooker , trying to be something better than she seems destined to be . 
when nomi realizes she's gone too far for too little , she catches herself just in time to save the most essential part of who she wants to be . 
gina rivera plays molly , a dressmaker and costumer who befriends nomi , providing her with what may be the one solid , positive relationship in nomi's entire life . 
molly is the one who makes the difference , and provides the role model and framework nomi needs to verify the value system she'll be using for the rest of her life , and nomi's feelings for molly are the spur that forces nomi's decision . 
gina gershon plays cristal , an aging , but still very attractive starring dancer , a reflexively competitive manipulator who's become a villainess by internalizing the ethos of the crooks and scum around her . 
gershon plays cristal as a cross between ava gardner and raquel welch ; a fading talent made bitter by self-awareness . 
her character is very well drawn and performed ; in a major scene in a hospital room , she acknowledges what she is , and , in essence , passes the torch to nomi . 
the relationship between the two of them is the most honest one in the movie , and provides part of the impetus nomi needs to follow a different path . 
it is no accident that the three important parts in this movie are women of different stripe ; molly is an honest , hard-working person who means well , and nearly dies because she confuses the glitter and the image with reality . 
cristal is a talented dancer who's compromised her ideals and sold herself to be a co-operating part of the system , exchanging self-respect for the species of stardom that can be had in las vegas . 
nomi believes she can make it without selling herself , succumbs to a degree , and then realizes she can make it without selling herself , and doesn't need las vegas or its brand of " stardom . " 
the male parts in this movie are simply props ; they exist only to demonstrate and explicate the cultural milieu against which showgirls exist . 
kyle maclachlan , whose single best previous work was as an inhumanly emotionless cop in the hidden , gives us a nicely reptilian bit of pond scum on two legs , camouflaged as a nice guy . 
glenn plummer plays a dancer who's working as a bellboy , and provides a bit of alternate perspective . 
plummer's character is the only one in the movie who's maintaining an interest in dance as a performing art , but even he's succumbed to the cult of manipulation . 
plummer's character is the closest thing to a sympathetic male character in the whole movie . 
some of jost vacano's cinematography is fantastic , and one particular delineation of nomi's character alteration , a no-dialog scene using nothing but color changes in the lighting , is utterly terrifying . 
this movie is rated nc-17 due to language , sexual situations , full frontal nudity , violence , and probably the costuming as well . 
i don't see a way this particular story could have been told well without it , and i regard it as a legitimate exercise in movie-making . 
but don't go see it if you're not in a tough mood ; the only person it's possible to like in this movie ends up in an i . c . u . 
on life support , and there is probably not one character in this movie you'd enjoy meeting in person . 
it has been three long years since quentin tarantino stunned the cinema world by claiming the cannes film festival's palme d'or , a $100 million-plus box office gross , and an oscar nomination ? all for his sophomore outing , pulp fiction . 
since then , the talented film maker has been virtually invisible , surfacing briefly as a co-director of the wildly uneven four rooms and the screenwriter of the gory vampire-fest , from dusk till dawn . 
in between , he has moonlighted as an " actor " with several decidedly unmemorable performances . 
now , with much fanfare and anticipation , tarantino has returned with his third directorial effort , jackie brown . 
and , while this motion picture , adapted from elmore leonard's novel , rum punch , offers solid entertainment , those expecting another bravura outing from tarantino will leave theaters disappointed . 
for the most part , jackie brown is a pretty ordinary crime movie . 
the story , which starts out slowly , develops into a twisty affair , with double-crosses and triple-crosses . 
and the movie is littered with occasional tarantino trademarks : witty dialogue , unexpected gunfire , '70s pop tunes , and close-ups of womens' bare feet . 
yet , for all of that , the production is something of a letdown . 
the sheer , in-your-face exuberance that marked reservoir dogs and especially pulp fiction is absent . 
the mostly-straightforward chronology of jackie brown doesn't match up favorably to the non-linear style of tarantino's previous efforts ? an approach that added tension and edginess to the narratives . 
and there aren't nearly as many deliciously offbeat conversations this time around . 
there's a samuel l . jackson monologue about guns , a jackson/chris tucker argument regarding the merits of hiding in a car trunk , and a jackson/robert de niro exchange that recalls some of the jackson/travolta material from pulp fiction , but that's about it . 
jackie brown's lone " innovation " is its presentation of a crucial sequence from three different perspectives . 
this isn't exactly an original technique ? it has been done numerous times before , most famously in akira kurosawa's rashomon and most recently in edward zwick's courage under fire . 
however , while in those two movies ( and others ) , there was a legitimate plot reason for the multiple points-of- view , tarantino's sole purpose for using it appears to be because it's unconventional . 
had the scenes in question been shown from only one of the three vantages , nothing would have been lost . 
as a result , this aspect of the film is little more than a curiosity . 
for the second picture in a row , tarantino is attempting to revive the career of a '70s icon . 
this time around , instead of john travolta , it's blaxploitation queen pam grier ( foxy brown has become jackie brown ) . 
in one of many nods to the most famous segment of grier's career , tarantino uses a '70s song to accompany her first appearance during the opening credits . 
there are also several instances during jackie brown when the director offers a sly wink towards certain conventions of the blaxploitation genre ( although grier never does any butt-kicking ) . 
grier is jackie brown , a flight attendant who gets caught transporting drugs and money into the united states . 
she's working for gun dealer ordell robbie ( samuel l . jackson ) , but she keeps her mouth shut under questioning , despite pressure from ray nicolet ( michael keaton ) , a federal official . 
no longer sure whether or not he can trust jackie , ordell arranges for a bail bondsman , max cherry ( robert forster , tv's " banyon " ) to post the necessary $10 , 000 , then plans to shoot jackie if she proves disloyal . 
jackie passes ordell's test , however , and soon the two of them are plotting a way to smuggle $500 , 000 of ordell's money into the united states without tipping off the feds . 
soon , just about everyone is after that money , including jackie , max , ray , ordell's perpetually oversexed and drugged-out girlfriend , melanie ( bridget fonda ) , and his right-hand man , louis ( robert de niro ) . 
unsurprisingly , the most memorable performance is turned in by samuel l . jackson , but ordell isn't nearly as invigorating or compelling a character as jules from pulp fiction . 
in addition to looking fantastic , pam grier is also quite good , although hers is not an oscar- caliber performance ( although she might get a nomination ) . 
robert forster and michael keaton are solid in their tough-guys-who-rarely- smile roles . 
bridget fonda is around for three discernible reasons : to look sexy in a bikini , to provide a little twisted comedy , and to satisfy tarantino's foot fetish . 
robert de niro is criminally underused in a part that could have been played equally well by any grungy- looking , middle-aged actor . 
the film , which clocks in at several minutes over the two-and-a- half hour mark , is probably too long for the material , but the plot is convoluted enough to keep us guessing throughout ( although the payoff is a letdown ) . 
tarantino keeps things moving along nicely , with a heavier dose of humor and less violence than in pulp fiction , but , on the whole , this movie seems more like the work of one of his wannabes than something from the director himself . 
when it comes to recent caper films ( like the grifters and bound ) , jackie brown is a second-tier effort . 
it's an entertaining diversion , but not a masterpiece , and certainly not an oscar contender . 
one of the biggest cliches of any serial killer film is also one of the most believable . 
you know , the one where the detective looks at a wall of pictures and other police information , and suddenly spots the clue which reveals who the killer is . 
sure , it's been used over and over , but for some reason , it is always fun to watch . 
this cliche pretty much describes the level kiss the girls works on : overused , but always fun . 
one of my personal rules about watching a film is not how original the film is , but how it goes around giving its story . 
this rule applies highly to kiss the girls . 
there is something psychologically stimulating in a well-crafted serial killer movie , and kiss the girls is certainly well made . 
however , the whole film screams of unoriginality , and so it relies on the power of its actors and the technical detail to pull it through . 
well , not only are the actors capable of pulling it through , but they add so much to the film that nearly every flaw is covered up . 
unfortunately , one of the most revealing and rather insulting choices by the filmmakers ( one that seven , a film a lot like this one , knew not to make ) was to put the name of the killer in the opening credits . 
that may give the actor credit for the role , but throughout the film , hidden in my mind , i was waiting for him to appear on screen , which spoiled the mystery . 
however , credit must be given to the director for suspending this knowledge through most of the film . 
plotwise , kiss the girls shows almost no originality . 
we are introduced to detective alex cross ( morgan freeman ) , a forensic psychologist , and immediately we are given the cliched scene establishing him as the hero . 
he gets a call about a woman who has shot her husband and is now threatening to kill herself . 
obviously cross succeeds at getting the gun , but this scene is quickly forgotten during the next scene . 
at his house , cross is told that his neice , naomi ( gina ravera ) , has been missing for four days . 
this provides the motivation for cross to find the killer , but we are never given a chance to establish the relationship between the two , and as a result , we can't sympathize with detective cross . 
however , what makes kiss the girls slightly original is the introduction of one of the abductees . . . 
before she is abducted . 
dr . kate mctiernan ( ashley judd , the actress of the judd family ) is a smart , athletic woman , and because of these traits , becomes a target for casanova--what the serial killer likes to call himself . 
because of these character-developing scenes , we care for mctiernan , making the abduction scene all that more suspenseful . 
after being abducted , mctiernan wakes up and finds herself in a cell somewhere in the woods . 
remembering that the killer gave her certain rules , she decides to break one of them by calling out . 
when casanova comes to punish her , she breaks out and escapes by jumping over a waterfall . 
after she is found , she begins to help cross find his neice . 
from this moment on , kiss the girls takes on the form of every other serial killer film , as the two leads search for the rest of the victims held captive . 
many people will compare this film to 1995's seven , another killer film starring morgan freeman , but i presume that the similarities are intentional . 
the screenplay , by david klass , is adapted from the novel written by james patterson , and yet i don't quite see how this story could have worked in novel form . 
what makes kiss the girls so good is the acting and the technical and visual impressiveness . 
the cinematography , by aaron schneider , is reminiscient of seven , and sometimes i felt that many of the shots were trying too hard to impress us . 
sometimes a simple shot is the best one . 
however , many of the shots are stunning , and unlike seven , most of them take place during the day , in sunlight . 
the scene when ashley judd is running through the forest is extremely well done , in more than one way . 
the camera work is terrific , but the editing makes this scene work so well . 
the chaotic and mtv-type cutting gives the audience a sense of confusion and unawareness , exactly what judd's character is experiencing . 
however , the best aspect of kiss the girls is its actors . 
morgan freeman is one of today's most powerful and believable actors . 
detective cross is a very good character for him , although it is just a similar one to the character in seven . 
because of freeman's powerful presence , he carries half the film by himself . 
the other half is carried by ashley judd , one of today's most promising dramatic actresses . 
in fact , her performance is better than freeman's , if that is even possible . 
her character is more original than freeman's , and she handles it wonderfully . 
we finally have a female character in a movie like this who does more than just scream . 
the supporting cast is highly underdeveloped , but the cast members do as much as they can with it . 
cary elwes portrays a cop in north carolina , and unfortunately has scraps for a character . 
tony goldwyn fairs slightly better , but we don't really get to know his character either . 
gina ravera gives a good performance , but again she isn't in many of the scenes . 
so as a result of all these small supporting parts , the weight of the film lies on the two leads , and they do a phenomenal job . 
some of the best acting of this genre , and some of the best acting of the year . 
two other essential aspects of the film are quite good . 
director gary fleder does a good job of controlling his actors , but the second half of the film loses believability , especially during the revelation of the killer . 
he also doesn't handle the suspenseful scenes as a better director would have , losing a lot of tension during many scenes . 
however , to his credit , he does manage a terrific first half . 
part of the blame falls on david klass . 
i'm sure the book developed many of the lesser characters more , but klass focuses on the two main parts . 
while this may give the two leads more screentime , many of the small characters are one-dimensional , and the killer , when revealed , is extremely implausible . 
thanks to the smart dialogue adapted from the novel , kiss the girls always seems intelligent . 
none of the conversations are laughable , and all move the plot forward without seeming forced . 
one of the biggest problems i had with the movie was the motive of the killer . 
i blame this mainly on the casting director , because the killer's motive is because of rejection from women ( or so i assume from the opening monologue ) , but the killer himself is very attractive ( one of my friends is a , shall we say , big admirer of the killer ) . 
kiss the girls is rated r for terror , violence , language , and suggested sex . 
with all the implausibilities of this film , and with the mediocre second half , kiss the girls somehow manages to thoroughly entertain . 
in fact , i had the urge to see it again just for the performances . 
the cinematography adds a lot of mood to the already creepy tone , and the script is usually smart . 
this is clearly one of those movies which rely on the acting to pull it through . 
morgan freeman is possibly today's most convincing actor , and ashley judd adds another notch on her acting belt . 
i must also say that i loved the ending . 
the showdown between good and evil was quite tense , and the resolution of the scene makes almost anyone cheer . 
perhaps it may not be possible , but most of the film isn't anyway . 
i was originally going to give the spanish prisoner two and half stars . 
from my first viewing , i noticed that david mamet's film was intense and clever at times but boring and cliched at other times especially at the beginning . 
from my second viewing however , i noticed that mamet's script was actually a masterpiece . 
the spanish prisoner , like the usual suspects or chinatown , begs for the viewer's complete attention . 
miss a scene or even a small detail , and you could miss the meaning of the entire film . 
also like the aforementioned films , it rewards its viewer for paying attention by delivering a surprising and memorable ending . 
mamet is success doing again what he once tackled in 1987 when he wrote and directed house of games . 
like his past gem , the spanish prisoner fools the audience as much ( or even more ) than the victim . 
because we were deceived just like the victim , we feel a strong attachment to the main character and consequently are more interested in the film . 
mamet has the talent of not completely ending a film gift wrapped , but rather leaving some ambiguity towards the end . 
the power that he has in forcing the viewer to determine who the good guys and bad guys are once the film is over , without giving a right answer , is unique and ingenious . 
the spanish prisoner will leave you seriously puzzled and intrigued . 
after seeing the film again , i noticed that the details mamet uses are so incredibly accurate it is frightening . 
his direction is very subtle ; as he leaves so many clues explaining what is going on and who is who but it is still very difficult to tell what exactly is happening even if you see all of them , or think you see all of them . 
the story follows a young up and coming businessman , joe ross , ( campbell scott ) who has just created a mysterious and lucrative " process " that everyone is trying to get their hands on . 
soon ross does not know who he can trust or who is after his " process . " 
through his journey ross meets a number of mysterious characters : the rich and popular jimmy dell , a secretary who has a huge crush on ross , and ross' boss mr . klein . 
played by steve martin , rebecca pidgeon , and ben gazarra respectively , the supporting cast is very solid especially martin , who deserved an oscar nomination for his commanding and manipulative role . 
the most interesting character in the film , though , was campbell scott's joe ross . 
the character's transformation from an ingenuous and polite rookie to a paranoid veteran is very apparent and justifiable . 
david mamet's script is so interesting because we know people don't actually talk like the characters in the film , yet we feel so connected to some of them . 
his beguiling style could fool any viewer up for the challenge . 
this is a must see , for those interested in solving a complex puzzle of a movie . 
an unhappy italian housewife , a lonely waiter , a goofy masseuse , lots of love , and gorgeous scenery all come together in bread and tulips , which proves charming despite its covering of predictable , well-worn material . 
the story concerns the aforementioned housewife , rosalba barletta ( licia maglietta ) who accidentally becomes separated from her immediate family while on vacation . 
instead of waiting for a ride home , rosalba opts not to go home to her italian town , but to instead hitchhike to venice . 
upon arriving , she tells her self-centered husband , mimmo ( an excellent antonio catania ) that she'll be home in a few days . 
of course , that doesn't happen , as rosalba quickly gains a level of independence that has been unattainable in her past life of scrubbing floors and buying groceries . 
in what seems like days , she moves in with lonely , suicidal waiter fernando ( bruno ganz ) , gets a job as a florist , learns the accordion , and befriends her neighbor -- a wacky holistic masseuse named grazia ( marina massironi ) . 
rosalba , who is first seen wearing a gaudy stretch pants outfit , starts wearing sexy dresses and getting closer to fernando . 
i can think of at least five other ( american ) movies ( including fried green tomatoes and an unmarried woman ) that are more than similar to bread and tulips . 
but maglietta and ganz , who act with restraint and care , help bread and tulips from becoming a tired retread . 
ganz plays the suicidal waiter role with a solemn , sometimes playful dignity that is a joy to watch , while maglietta never overreacts to her growing comfort with the outside world . 
throughout the movie , maglietta has an easygoing , confident demeanor , which makes it very easy to root for her and her growing attraction for ganz's character . 
the gorgeous scenery of moonlit town squares and sparkling rivers provides a perfect love story backdrop -- you just might want to ask the attractive stranger in the seat behind you for coffee after the lights come up . 
director and co-writer silvio soldini must get credit for sprinkling the movie with effective goofy humor . 
the cheap mimmo , desperate to find his wife ( after all , he needs his shirts ironed and his mistress won't do it ) , hires a job applicant ( giuseppe battiston ) at his bathroom supply firm to do the job . 
the reason ? 
mimmo discovers that the prospective plumber loves detective stories . 
the novice detective's various misfortunes , including him saying goodbye to his weepy mother , are very funny . 
unfortunately , there are flaws that somewhat spoil bread and tulips' cheery tone . 
rosalba is bothered by several surreal dreams during her time in venice , which bring the movie to a halt . 
it's like putting a gunfight in a nora ephron movie . 
several details in fernando's life also never get proper closure , including his suicidal tendencies . 
early in the movie , he nearly hangs himself before rosalba knocks on his apartment door . 
after that , fernando's step towards death is never made reference to , probably because soldini wanted to include a lukewarm , underdeveloped subplot about fernando's stormy past . 
it seems more like a desperate attempt to pump up the drama in a plot that doesn't need any . 
but there aren't a lot of overwhelming negatives in bread and tulips . 
the movie is fun and romantic , with beautiful scenery and characters whose lives we'd like to live if we had the nerve . . . 
or if our passports weren't missing . 
after the terminally bleak reservoir dogs and the brutally violent pulp fiction , jackie brown seems like something of a light-hearted departure for quentin tarantino . 
it's more of a ho-hum heist story with characters that speak the tarantino language . 
luckily , his showcase of actors convert every morsel of possible enjoyment onto the screen , and jackie brown has no trouble entertaining the average viewer . 
the story introduces us to a street-wise black woman named jackie brown ( pam grier ) , a flight attendant who smuggles money and drugs from one destination to another . 
she works for a bottom-of-the-barrel airline and receives a minimal salary . 
but one day , she is picked up by a pair of federal officials ( including michael keaton as the tough-nosed ray nicolet ) , and found with a handsome load of cash and a small bag of smuggled dope . 
jackie is working for a weapons dealer named ordell ( samuel l . jackson ) , who pays her bail money but suspects her of tipping off the feds about their operation . 
soon jackie and ordell are plotting a way to smuggle $500 , 000 through to them under nicolet's nose , with the help of ordell's oaf of a partner ( robert de niro ) and drugged-out lady friend ( bridget fonda ) . 
also entering the picture is a bail-bondsman named max cherry ( robert forster ) , who takes a liking to jackie and agrees at one point to make the situation even more complicated ( how i won't say ) . 
the big drop-off is undoubtedly the high point of jackie brown , in which numerous double-crosses take place and many clothing store bags ( filled with cash ) switch hands . 
it's unfortunate that tarantino takes his sweet time getting there , and doesn't offer anything extremely compelling while doing so . 
there are , as always , amusing exchanges between characters . 
the funniest repartee is between de niro and fonda , as he becomes annoyed with her constant bickering while making fun of his iq , or lack thereof . 
the most interesting relationship is between max and jackie . 
a 56-year old white bail bondsman and a 44-year old black flight attendant with believable chemistry ? 
you've got to commend the acting . 
jackie brown is a seriously dragged-out exercise enlivened by such fine acting . 
the film clocks in at a lengthy 2 hours , 35 minutes . 
tarantino's talky style manages to hold your attention heavily , but there are more than a few dramatic lapses and crucial lulls in the storyline . 
also , fans of the director should be prepared for a lighter side to appear . 
jackie brown has four major shootings , and two of those take place mostly off-screen , so don't be expecting a typical tarantino bloodbath . 
you can expect frequent foul language , mostly coming way of ordell , who ( much to the dismay of spike lee ) uses the `n' word as part of his regular vocabulary . 
the acting is the glue that holds everything together . 
grier , making a sudden comeback from her reign in the 1970's , is more than adequate for the title character . 
in fact , she's flat-out great . 
another comeback comes from former tv star robert forster , who does a grand job as max cherry , and is perfectly cast in doing so . 
michael keaton makes his presence felt , albeit in small but dignified moments , and de niro is ideal in playing the lug-head who goes over the edge . 
speaking of that , bridget fonda has relatively little to do as ordell's bikini-clad beach babe , and yet she manages to look fairly occupied . 
there's not a single sign of misplaced dialogue or snubbed line throughout the entire movie . 
which is a life-saver for mr . tarantino . 
the story barely holds together in the meantime , and we merely get a small tremor whenever there should be a defeaning earthquake . 
but oh well . 
jackie brown manages to be an enjoyable detour from quentin tarantino , even if it is lacking the glaring and original bite of his previous work . 
let's just hope that the director hasn't gone soft on us . 
upon taking a seat at the theater , and surveying the crowd , i soon realized that i was the only person under forty in the premises . 
i'm twenty-two , but have been accused of looking sixteen . 
yet as the film began , any consciousness of setting shifted to the home of five close-knit , yet troubled sisters . 
director pat o'connor ( inventing the abbots , circle of friends ) weaves a quiet yet affecting tale of loss , need , and the bonds between five sisters . 
the family is ruled by kate ( meryl streep ) , an unconsciously strict schoolteacher , who is completely conscious of the deterioration of her family . 
there is very little background given to the viewer , as we are thrust into a tense but loving home . 
squabbles take place one after the other , caused by years and years of history . 
perhaps one of the best things about this film , is its naturalness . 
no situation is over-wrought , and characters react as real people do , to real problems . 
this probably is a result of the film being from a stage play . 
the play was in turn is based on a time in the life of the playwright . 
what seems to be an underlying theme are the pagan rituals and dances of peoples , both in lughnasa and africa . 
in fact , dance seems to be the glue that holds the family together and most expressively shows their closeness . 
legs tap , and bodies sway even in the midst of impending disaster . 
only after the music stops , and the characters stand breathing heavily do we sense any trouble . 
in the quiet after the music we muse that it's sad that music has to cease , and families falter . 
the movie is framed by a scene of michael mundy , the narrator of the movie , as a young child flying a kite . 
he trips over a bump and loses hold of his string , and the kite floats off farther into the distance . 
drawn on the white diamond of the kite is a face that looks at once pained , and at another glance mischievous . 
the mundy family itself follows a similar fate to that of the kite , and kate's hold of the family isn't strong enough to hold off the winds of change . 
as michael stands , staring at his kite fly away , we hear the adult michael , looking back at the season that his world changed forever . 
the movie is not overpowering , but it gives us a beautiful window into the life , love , and trouble of a household of lonely women . 
note : this is the first movie review i've ever written , any responses on it would be greatly appreciated . 
 : ) 
in may of 1977 , just 2 years after steven spielberg's success with jaws and 3 years after francis coppolas' the godfather , a risky , ambitious young director named george lucas went for the same unpredictable box office success . 
little did he know that star wars would become the greatest science fiction epic in the history of film . 
in january of this year , lucas re-released star wars on its 20th anniversary . 
in this new , remastered version , the added effects , which range from leathery desert beasts inserted into already existing shots to an awkward new scene in which hans solo bargains his way out of a jam with a computer-generated jabba the hutt , don't do much but call attention to themselves . 
other than these , the film is exactly the same . 
why pay to see it in the theaters , you might ask ? 
simply because when this movie was released , most of us were a few years short of being born . 
we should all get up and go to the movies for the experience , especially if you haven't seen it . 
the plot is basic but in the same way , complex . 
it has many themes , but the one rotates around luke skywalker ( mark hamill ) and his quest to become a jedi knight . 
his mission begins when a droid named r2-d2 plays back a secret message recorded by the beautiful princess leia ( carrie fisher ) , which tells him to contact the mysterious obi-wan kanoby ( alec guiness ) . 
he and kanoby then , joined by two inter-galactic renegades , hans solo ( harrison ford ) and chewbacca , and skywalker's two droids d2 and c3po ( the voice of anthony edwards ) , wage war upon the corrupt empire , commanded by an evil general ( peter cushing ) and the traitorous darth vader ( the voice of james earl jones ) . 
skywalker defeats the evil empire by rising out of himself to embrace something larger : the force . 
the film is obviously quite star-studded . 
but how was lucas to know that ford would become one of the most sought after men in hollywood and jones' voice would appear so many more times in the future ? 
it just happened to work out for him . 
the magic of star wars lies in the way that skywalker's triumph is symbolized by the audience's sense of becoming something larger than life itself-a universe of fans , young and old , recreating a movie atmosphere that will impress generations forever . 
 , 
`strange days' chronicles the last two days of 1999 in los angeles . 
as the locals gear up for the new millenium , lenny nero ( ralph fiennes ) goes about his business of peddling erotic memory clips . 
he pines for his ex-girlfriend , faith ( juliette lewis ) , not noticing that another friend , mace ( angela bassett ) really cares for him . 
this film features good performances , impressive film-making technique and breath-taking crowd scenes . 
director kathryn bigelow knows her stuff and does not hesitate to use it . 
but as a whole , this is an unsatisfying movie . 
the problem is that the writers , james cameron and jay cocks , were too ambitious , aiming for a film with social relevance , thrills , and drama . 
not that ambitious film-making should be discouraged ; just that when it fails to achieve its goals , it fails badly and obviously . 
the film just ends up preachy , unexciting and uninvolving . 
there's a thin line between satire and controversy , and mike nichols ( the birdcage , wolf ) has directed a sharp and very honest look at a us presidential election . 
based on the book written by " anonymous " ( actually former " newsweek " writer joe klein ) , john travolta plays governor jack stanton . 
but he doesn't actually play stanton . 
he plays bill clinton ; just the same as emma thompson no doubt plays the first lady and billy bob thorton is the campaign manipulator james carville ( although the credits will of course say otherwise ) . 
the film is taken from the perspective of henry burton ( adrian lester ) , a morally correct and somewhat hesitant new advisor to stanton . 
he searches for justice and dignity in the ugliest possible situations , and whether it be keeping the history of his boss' pants under wraps or contemplating digging up dirt on another politician , he approaches his work with a keen desire to skillfully serve his country and his fellow workers . 
richard jemmons ( billy bob thorton ) and daisy green ( maura tierney ) team up with henry as the would-be president's advisors , and hire lesbian veteran libby holden ( kathy bates ) as the campaign's eccentric " tougher than dirt " incriminator . 
together they face all sorts of sexual allegations , the irritatingly discourteous media and other witty politicians in the election race . 
in its satire and controversy , primary colors is a similar film to wag the dog : they both are not afraid to wipe their noses in the nitty-gritty and take a bold look at something that will never has honesty as a virtue . 
but whereas wag showed us how much affect a few people can have on the media , primary colors is much more concerned with fleshing out it's characters , letting us understand what they want and why , and making us truly appreciate the humanity and rectitude that they graciously represent . 
seeing john travolta play bill clinton so confidently and justly is enough to make the film more than worth a look . 
and the rest of the cast also make superb performances - adrian lester sharply portrays the intellect of henry whilst kathy bates is perfect as the robust and energetic libby holden . 
at occasions , you can't help but feel that these terrific characters are going to waste . 
there are long slabs of time where john travolta ( unquestionably the most interesting to watch ) is missed from the screen ; and since it is awkwardly structured as henry's story we are often forced to watch scenes that perhaps are not so necessary to the central plot - or even the point of the film . 
having said that , make no mistake - primary colors is always enjoyable to watch . 
but frequently we have to ask ourselves - exactly what are we watching ? 
most of the first half of its duration is a lightheaded look at melodramatic confrontations that seem so genuine we cannot help but laugh , but the way primary colors chooses to finish tackles aspects that are very contrary , and almost unsuitable , to the rest of the film . 
but as i mentioned before , there is a thin line between satire and controversy - and for the most part , primary colors delivers an entertaining indulgence of political matters combined with a far-from-overpowering look at winning the public's opinion . 
although at occasions the film may jump around a little too freely , focus is never lost on how important and vulnerable the subject matter really is . 
thankfully , it is clear to make the distinction on what is entertaining movie cosmetics and what is a provocative documentation of something so really it's scary . 
it was only a matter of time before a dilbert-esque office comedy hit the screens . 
however , rather than coming from dilbert creator scott adams , office space is instead based on the work of another animator , mike judge , creator of beavis and butthead and king of the hill . 
in his live-action directoral debut , judge aptly spoofs corporate culture . 
the story is certainly not very involved , but there is plenty of truth and humor to fill the gaps . 
peter ( ron livingston ) is a programmer working at the initech corporation . 
every day in his mundane life is worse than the one before . . . in 
other words , every day is the worst day in his entire life . 
he's stuck in a boring job with eight different supervisors , all obsessed with administrative trivialities . 
he's smitten with joanna ( jennifer aniston ) , a local waitress , but hasn't the guts to even introduce himself . 
everything has simply made him a complete , nervous wreck . 
but all of that changes when , after an unintentionally over-effective visit to a hypnotherapist , peter loses all of his inhibitions . 
he realizes his lifelong dream : to do absolutely nothing . 
he begins to blatantly disregard the nonsensical instructions of his boss , bill lumbergh ( gary cole ) , doing whatever he feels like . 
peter's friends and co-workers , samir ( ajay naidu ) and michael bolton ( david herman ) . . . no , 
not that michael bolton , are perplexed by their friend's sudden change in attitude . 
but , they have larger things to worry about : rumors about that initech is about to begin downsizing . . . 
as bleak as much of this sounds , let me assure you that office space is a comedy , and quite a funny one . 
although it shares the same absurdist office humor of the dilbert comic strip , office space is actually based loosely on the series of milton cartoons which aired on saturday night life . 
each mundane detail , taken by itself , seems completely , regrettably , plausible . 
yet , when combined into a whole , the picture which results is absolutely surreal . 
ron livingston tackles his role straight-faced , and becomes much funnier because of it . 
his character isn't simply being a clown lampooning around the office , but rather seems possessed by a zen-like clarity . 
he is operating on a higher plane , where everything suddenly makes sense , and from this vantage point , he allows the audience to smirk at the absurdities of life . 
anyone who has had to deal with the inefficiencies of corporate bureaucracy , or who has ever been frustrated with the technology of modern life , will recognize many of the characters and situations in the film . 
in fact , in addition to being wildly humorous , the film may actually prove to be cathartic . 
the animated roots of office space show in the film's lack of complexity . 
most of the characters in the film can be quickly summarized by a particular personality quirk . 
one employee , milton ( stephen root ) , is practically a flesh-and-blood cartoon . 
however , despite their simple nature , the characters still manage to be surprisingly funny . 
it's not required to have a corporate background to enjoy this film ( though the situations may seem exceedingly far-fetched if you are unfamiliar with just how close to reality they really are ) . 
the film is flimsy and absurd , but also very funny . 
all those who were offended by there's something about mary should not tread in the waters of american pie , a gratuitously sexual rollercoaster ride of raunch . 
and while this uproariously funny , gross-out summer movie is basically an exercise in bad taste , it also demonstrates a surprising sweetness in the end . 
american pie is the latest entry to the offensive teenage-targeted fare this season . 
i must question the studio that releases a movie like this . 
the producers are aiming these films at the 15-24 crowd , but while pushing the limit of possible sex and violence in an r-rated film . 
some have even been narrowly avoiding the dreaded nc-17 , a rating the mpaa gives when the adult content surpasses even that of a restricted movie . 
american pie was threatened with an nc-17 , but after snipping a few scenes from the finished product , it was given an r . but at least this new addition is not as careless and unforgiving as something like south park . 
it is sick , perverse , and ultimately disgusting - not to mention extremely funny . 
american pie is about four desperate teenagers who make a pact to lose their virginity by prom night . 
jim ( jason biggs ) , kevin ( thomas ian nicholas ) , oz ( chris klein ) and finch ( eddie kaye thomas ) are a quartet of high school students in their senior year who think sex is something they must experience to be successful in their lives ahead . 
jim inquires what it feels like when you reach third base , to which one of his friends replies : `like warm apple pie . . . ' . 
of course , this prompts the scene unfairly exposed in the trailers , in which jim and a freshly baked pie have a very intimate moment in the kitchen corner . 
there are many moments , such as this , in which director paul weitz uses a game-plan similar to the one frequently displayed in mary : to cause the audience to break down laughing in disgusting disbelief . 
american pie is a hard-fought effort that has replenishing rewards if you manage to stick with it . 
i loved the young cast in this movie . 
consider the subject matter that these actors have dealt with , obviously suggestiveness never rivaled in any of their previous projects , and you should appreciate their performances . 
biggs is more than enjoyable , and chris klein ( who recently played a similar jock in election ) is obviously a young talent on the rise . 
but in a teen-dominated movie , the best performance comes from comedian eugene levy ( of television's sctv ) , who is unexpectedly brilliant as jim's uneasy father . 
scenes in which the familiar father-son conversations are brought to interesting new levels are the funniest moments to be found in american pie . 
after levy discovers jim's new use for apple pie , he tells him , `i did a fare share of that sort of thing when i was your age . 
but i never used baked goods . ' 
it is performances such as his , and bill murray's in rushmore , that are often unfairly dismissed when awards are handed out . 
there are some less-than-original aspects of the film . 
a bathroom incident involving finch and a bottle of ex-lax is something we've seen before . 
if weitz is planning to take after the farrelly brothers , then this is a decidedly unwise move : the same prank was pulled in the brother's dumb and dumber , and used to greater effect . 
secondly , the characters are forced into a half-hearted climax that seems more artificial than amusing . 
but at one point , in which we discover that american pie does have a heart of it's own , biggs asks his buddies why he's going through so much pressure for something that's `not very important anyway . ' 
and so we realize that while the film is expressive about a subject that is hardly appropriate , it still manages to be mature . 
in it's own way . 
albert brooks saves the day , just in the nick of time . 
with a very poor summer for movies , brooks is just what audiences were looking for to cheer them up , and does so in a positive way . 
while this may not be his finest work , " the muse " still shakes up some delightful humor . 
in albert brook's latest comedy , he tells a story of a troubled screenwriter ( brooks ) who's losing his edge , as his business partners say . 
in desperation , he goes to see his friend jack ( jeff bridges ) , who has been a very successful screenwriter in the past . 
he asks jack for some help , and recieves word of a real life muse , that has helped him and many other directors throughout their career . 
so brooks seeks the muse named sarah ( sharon stone ) , and is suckered into buying her expensive , food etc . as a sort of payment . 
the real punch line however , doesn't come until the end . 
it really makes you wonder , how screenwriters really get their ideas , could it simply be from a friend or a bum in the street ? 
the idea itself is provoking and brooks does it in a hilarious manner . 
speaking of brooks , he was absolutely hysterical as a screenwriter . 
every time he graces the screen , i can't help but start laughing . 
albert has a very unique sense of humor that makes him a very likeable character . 
the real problem with the film lies with sharon stone . 
she wasn't likeable at all . 
brooks had the right idea with her occupation , but she never pulled through . 
in a way , she drained energy from the once funny atmosphere and left it bleak . 
luckily brooks could clean up the mess , and cover for stone's mishap . 
it was a shame that the film went slightly downhill after her appearance , because " the muse " had the potential to a be a very authentic comedy . 
on a brighter note , andie macdowell was also charming as brook's wife . 
she is always a nice addition as a supporting actress , because she has that charisma that seems to complete the atmosphere to any film she's in . 
the funniest moments in " the muse " in my opinion were the cameos by james cameron and martin scorsese . 
i mean imagine , brooks seeing these big named directors in his back yard seeking sharon stone for advice , like it was something out of the ordinary . 
it was just plain hilarious . 
it just adds to the satire joke , of how directors get ideas . 
brilliant move by brooks . 
as i mentioned before , the film is a satire much like it's proceeder bowfinger , which came out a few weeks before . 
unlike bowfinger , this is not a mean spirited film that's desperate for jokes , it's rather a witty and humorous look at hollywood . 
 " bowfinger " had it's moments , but had quite a few problems that were never worked out , but " the muse " still managed to keep the laughs despite a bit of a detour . 
by the end of the film , you're glad to see a good hearty comedy come out of it . 
for once i'm not fully disappointed , because the film didn't slow down , it kept moving , even with some flaws . 
thumbs up to brooks for his brave effort . 
i think he'll still manage to keep his edge around well into the future . 
for more than a decade , anjelica huston has been one of america's finest actresses . 
in her directorial debut , bastard out of carolina , based upon dorothy allison's largely autobiographical book on child abuse and poverty in the south , huston displays impressive proficiency behind the camera as well . 
the film tells the story of ruth anne boatwright , nicknamed bone by one of her uncles at birth , in post-world war ii south carolina . 
through voice-over ( narration done by laura dern ) , we find that she nearly didn't survive birth , as her single mother anney , played by jennifer jason leigh , was thrown through the windshield during an automobile accident . 
that's just the beginning of her troubles . 
bone is deemed illegitimate on her birth certificate , a social stigma which her mother and her large poor family obsesses over for years to come . 
anney meets and weds lyle , a kind man and good stepfather whom gives bone a baby sister before dying in an automobile accident . 
anney's brother earle , played by michael rooker , introduces her to glen , played by ron eldard , a co-worker at the mill . 
glen , the black sheep of a wealthy family ( " when are you gonna make your daddy proud ? 
i'll tell you when - never ! " 
he's told ) and filled with bitterness , courts anney and eventually wins her , despite warnings of a violent temper . 
when anney miscarries with his much-prized baby boy , glen loses his capability to supress his violent outbursts and begins to direct them at bone , beating and abusing her , while the love-dependent anney tries to turn a blind eye and justify his behaviour . 
things turn for the worse when glen loses his job and the family of four sink into impoverishment . 
while set several decades ago , this story remains completely relevant in today's society , where abused wives return to their husbands , and abuse committed against children by one spouse is routinely overlooked by the other . 
the real star of this domestic drama is not top-billed jennifer jason leigh , but child actress jena malone , who plays bone in a wrenching and wholly impressive debut performance . 
her work is of award-calibre , and in this age in which a preponderence of superb child performers have emerged ( kirsten dunst , tina majorino , anna paquin , natalie portman , christina ricci , elijah wood ) , malone's performance stands up well . 
leigh's performance in bastard out of carolina is fine , although she's not really given much to do , and ron eldard work is very solid , skillfully manouvering his character's moods in and out of explosive rage . 
one can always sense that underneath his glen is a pressure-cooker ticking away . 
of the supporting cast , special note must be made of the criminally underrated michael rooker's performance . 
there's a bit too much generic formulaism in the screenplay for my taste , from the various characters spouting off country bumpkinisms , to the familiar sight of a dried-up uptight wise old granny ( played by grace zabriskie ) sitting on the porch rocking chair , to impassioned soliloquies better suited for a stage performance . 
still , it cannot be denied that anne meredith's screenplay contains a wallop of emotional power . 
huston's direction of the film is surehanded and impressive , giving the film good pacing and eliciting good performances from her cast , particularly the young malone . 
her sequences of child abuse are shot in a hard-hitting emotional , rather than graphic , manner , and are very effective . 
huston's talent with camera positioning is wonderful , from a visually striking shot done through a fan , to an extended sequence in the front seat of an automobile . 
the film has the toned-down feel of a television production ; bastard out of carolina was originally composed and cut for broadcast on the tnt cable station , who ended up declining the film due to sentiments that scenes of abuse and rape in the film were too disturbingly realistic for their audience . 
perhaps some sequences of the film may be unpleasant , but as a whole bastard out of carolina adds up to a powerful viewer experience worth seeing . 
razor blade smile running as part of the vancouver international film festival played october 2nd and 4th , 1998 . 
official release : halloween 
reviewed by vince yim 
`you think you know all about vampires . . . believe 
me . . . you 
know f * ck all . ' 
with these words , we are brought into the world of a sultry vampire seductress by the name of lilith silver ( played by eileen daly ) . 
made into an immortal a century and a half ago by the sinister ethan blake , she continues to alleviate boredom with her state of being . 
so , what's an undead girl to do , except squeeze into the tightest fitting clothes possible , get out her guns , seduce a few guys , and kill a few people for money and blood ? 
with that out of the way , let me say this . 
this film is bad . 
this film is really , really bad . 
yet somehow , it is strangely enjoyable . 
with all the elements of a direct to video horror flick ? buxom babes , gore , cheesy dialogue , and bad acting ? any casual film viewer would be more inclined to spend their money on renting innocent blood or going to see blade . 
still , it is considered to be one of the finest british vampire film . 
agreed , it might be , but is far from being the best vampire flick ever . 
period . 
razor blade smile has some rather high production values , shown by the nice overall tone to the film . 
the film is also a bit of a departure from popular vampire lore , with a vampire that can go out in broad daylight without disintegrating , doesn't sleep in a coffin ( but leaves one next to her computer ) , and sees religion as the `opium of the peoples' ( hence , immunity to crosses ) . 
but aside from that , it doesn't stray too far away from horror film conventions . 
that is , unless that is intentional . 
razor blade smile literally goes for the throat , then pumps the wound full of processed cheese . 
you can't help but laugh when a female vampire gets decapitated and her severed head goes flying into a puddle . 
you'll laugh even harder at the hideously contrived situations ( to distract two female guards , lilith tosses a cellular phone towards them and dials the number ) . 
you'll laugh the hardest when a murder witness recants the tale and suddenly starts sobbing uncontrollably . 
and then , there's the sudden twist ending ( i have enough heart not to give it away ) . 
the film refuses to take itself seriously , which is a good thing , as by the time lilith zips up her skin-tight body suit and then unzips it just to show the right amount of cleavage , you've most likely forgotten the main point of the story . 
but in case you really care , she's been assigned to kill a bunch of people who belong to the so-called illuminati , and she's leaving a huge mess behind for the police to find . 
as much as my criticisms , this movie works best as a guilty pleasure or as a film that you watch with your friends and within groups . 
almost destined for cult-status , the film's campy , cheesy overtones actually work towards the film . 
while this may not necessarily be the film you'd want to be seen watching by yourself , it makes for a fun time at the movies . 
pitch black is a sheep in wolf's clothing . 
it is full of darkness , danger and violence and if you buy into the marketing hype , an unsettling and scary film going experience . 
don't be fooled . 
pitch black is a morality play masquerading as a scare-fest . 
it starts off with blistering intensity . 
a cargo spaceship crash lands on a planet apparently leeched of life by the scorching heat of three suns . 
among the survivors is fry ( mitchell ) , the ship's pilot , who spends the film wrestling with the fact that she tried to jettison the other passengers in her effort to land the craft safely . 
there is imam ( david ) , an islamic leader whose faith in his god is tested repeatedly throughout the film . 
there is a law enforcement officer in the form of johns ( hauser ) , who attacks every situation with square jawed authoritarian zeal . 
and there is riddick ( diesel ) , a menacing , muscle-bound convicted murderer who's being brought back to justice by johns . 
the group quickly sizes up the situation and each other . 
confident in their assessment of matters , a plan is set in motion to escape their hellish environment . 
those plans are shredded by the appearance of one of the planet's wildlife , a predatory , sometimes winged , species that enjoys the taste of blood and flesh . 
fortunately , the creatures are light sensitive and are forced to live in networks of catacombs under the planet's surface . 
unfortunately , the group has managed to land on the planet moments before an eclipse is about to occur , taking away their one protection from the monsters . 
the group's savior comes in the form of johns , whose decisive leadership looks to deliver them from purgatory . 
or does it ? 
pitch black deviates from the standard sci-fi fare by avoiding some of the stock " escape the boogieman " conflicts the genre typically serves up . 
just as the planet gave a false facade of lifelessness , first appearances given by the survivors proves to be just as false . 
the excitement of the film comes not from the danger posed by the creatures , but rather from watching the shifting allegiances and emotional growth of the characters as the planet serves as a deus ex machina of sorts to catalyze emotional growth . 
a recurrent theme runs throughout the movie of faith , whether it be religious or in a person , and how that powers their motivations . 
i found it telling that an accidental death occurs early on due to the misperception of a self professed atheist . 
conversely , imam constantly contributes any good fortune to allah . 
one by one , his perceived heaven sent blessings are taken away and crushed . 
imam is forced to reassess his faith . 
another character expresses belief in god , along with a life long hate . 
yet another character makes a decision that echoes the sentiments of christ about selflessness and has lasting repercussions for several of group . 
it is a fascinating character study hiding under the guise of a scare flick . 
special mention should be made of vin diesel , who intriguingly conveys feral menace combined with a truly mesmerizing presence . 
his character could have easily slipped into a parody of the baddass killing machine , but twohy and diesel add surprising depth to riddick . 
they can be excused for the two or three shwarzenegger-like catch phrases that growl their way out of diesel's mouth . 
the movie has its flaws that can be nitpicked . 
the creatures do look derivative of the ones in alien . 
the dialogue isn't the freshest at times , reminiscent of a bad comic book . 
yes , the appearance of riddick's vision skills are more than a little timely considering the situation . 
these trappings are on the periphery of the story twohy is really trying to tell . 
twohy may have lured you in under the pretense of scaring you with film fabricated boogieman , but he shows the real boogieman to be the prejudices and beliefs we use to direct decisions in our lives . 
seen february 15 , 1998 on home video ( borrowed from chris wessell ) . 
when it comes to modern gangster movies , it's really difficult to describe and review them without making comparisons to other films of the genre and/or just using the word " routine . " 
i've always subscribed to the philosophy that any idea ( no matter how many times it's been used before ) can provide for a good story and " donnie brasco " clinches this idea . 
it's not unlike most of the great films of the genre , yet it never apes another's style as it has a good layer of authenticity , even if its core is a tad stale . 
the film starts off in typical fashion by defining its atmosphere of new york city in the late 1970s and the mobsters who inhibit it . 
we meet lefty ( pacino ) , an aging wiseguy who can still walk the walk and talk the talk . 
he and his associates go through the generic motions you expect to see in crime films like this . 
somehow he comes across donnie brasco ( depp ) , a younger guy with a lot of spunk who isn't afraid of lefty and his rep , and even manages to befriend him after lefty was ready to kill him . 
it's clear donnie is new to the life and lefty recognizes this immediately , telling him all the tricks of the trade . 
i have never seen this technique of actually revealing the mafioso idiosyncrasies done before and for this the film deserves credit . 
however , we soon realize donnie is actually joe pistone , an fbi agent working undercover - a character who symbolizes the viewer as he will soon be purged into the lifestyle and treated as a newcomer . 
the first act works as a guided to ot of rhetoric about wiseguy honor , a brief history of the mob , definitions of their slang , and where their money comes from and who it goes to . 
the screenplay is rather sketchy on the details surrounding these elements , however , the fact they are mentioned at all is quite original . 
most gangster movies seem to be made with the notion the viewer already knows how the mob works ( probably from watching other gangster movies ) , and although this attitude comes across , the film tries to fill in all the holes where and when it can and the effort is appreciable . 
thankfully the film doesn't become too caught up in the tedious details of organized crime , and instead opts for character development . 
much of the story is told simply through the interaction between lefty and donnie . 
pacino is outstanding here as the pathetic hood who speaks of his job in the same manner any blue collar worker would . 
he's old and exhausted but seems to enjoy what he does , just as anyone loyal to the same employer for over 30 years might be . 
we learn of his accomplishments , which are quite impressive within their context , and when he complains about not being made top boss , it's easy to sympathize with him . 
newell constantly plays up this aspect , making it a major theme which works well in the long run . 
as donnie is constantly impressing and even one-upping lefty , it's hard to tell which emotion is more powerful : the fact donnie is getting closer to nailing the mob ; or the fact lefty has once again been over shadowed . 
most of the film tells the story of donnie's life in mafia , which creates for many sub-plots and individual conflicts , but doesn't always seem to come together as a whole . 
the storytelling is genuinely interesting throughout , even when the motions the characters go through seem familiar . 
the resonance to donnie's actual assignment varies , he often reports back to the feds with detail of his progress , but it doesn't always seem to have much meaning . 
back home , his wife maggie ( heche ) is ready to divorce him because he's never a and the family is suffering . 
since this is based on a true story i wouldn't doubt this would happen , although the way it is handled often borders on the melodramatic . 
my only major complaint is the film seems to have no final act , or at least any real sense of closure . 
a climax of sorts does occur , but there's little feeling of a payoff . 
we get a happy ending , which is good , but perhaps a sad ending would have been more powerful . 
aside from a few minor , general flaws , " donnie brasco " manages to be a solid piece of storytelling and character development . 
it may be routine , but it's good , and that's respectful . 
 " sometimes the 'green mile' seems sooooo long . " 
indeed . 
and any filmmaker with a three hour movie who ends it with that gem of dialogue should expect to see it quoted in a review . 
on a more positive note , let me add that sometimes the green mile is almost good enough to make us forget its length . 
the mile in question ( green due to its faded lime-colored linoleum ) leads from the prison cell to " old sparky , " the electric chair where executions were carried out at louisiana's cold mountain penitentiary in 1935 . 
paul edgecomb ( tom hanks , you've got mail ) is the head guard of e-block , otherwise known as death row . 
keeping his prisoners calm as they await the carrying out of their sentence is his primary responsibility . 
it is a responsibility which he capably delegates to the other guards on his watch by insisting they " talk to " the convicts instead of yelling at them . 
this practice leads to an unusual camaraderie between the guards and the men behind their bars . 
into his charge comes one john coffey ( michael clarke duncan , armageddon ) , a seven foot tall gentle giant who has been convicted of the rape and murder of two young girls . 
immediately , paul senses something different about this prisoner . 
perhaps its the way he asked for a night light because he is frightened of the dark . 
or perhaps it is the mystical healing powers he demonstrates as he " takes back " paul's bladder infection thereby restoring him to health . 
based on steven king's 1996 serialized novel , the green mile does offer other characters who have stories to be told : eduard delacroix ( michael jeter , patch adams ) , is a frail cajun convict who befriends and trains a mouse to do circus tricks ; percy wetmore ( doug hutchison , a time to kill ) , is a young and sadistic guard sitting on a transfer to a more lucrative position because he has yet to see a prisoner " fry " up close ; and hal moores ( james cromwell , babe : pig in the city ) is the compassionate warden for whom , despite all the executions he's witnessed , death never loomed as large as when his own wife was diagnosed with a tumor . 
while it is mr . hanks " everyman " performance at the center of the film which gives it the anchor to hold our interest for 180 minutes , it is the performances of his supporting cast that are most worth noting . 
all involved do credible work in their respective roles , most especially mr . duncan , who turns in an impressive , fully realized characterization . 
if only the story were more credible . 
writer/director frank darabont ( the shawshank redemption ) has crafted a flawed fantasy/allegory of sorts ; one which is more spiritualistic than spiritual , relying on a preternatural mysticism rather than a genuine and godly spiritual power . 
mr . darabont also overplays his hand considerably in the manipulation of our affection towards and association with his characters . 
was it an accidental omission that the first two inmates who walked the green mile were being punished for crimes never disclosed ? 
by not knowing the reason for the condemned convicts' presence on e-block , the audience never gets the sense of the justice which is being carried out , making the death penalty appear cruel and unwarranted . 
this is especially true during the gruesome depiction of the second execution which was horribly botched . 
much has also been made of coffey's christ-like ability to heal but unlike the numerous healings which are recorded in the scriptures , coffey's powers are shrouded in mystery , taking on the feel of a circus trick , coupled with a voodoo-like " i feel your pain " transference . 
in contrast , there is no mystery associated with the healing that is from god . 
the genuine " gifts of healing " listed in 1 corinthians 12 is just one of the nine manifestations of holy spirit and can be operated by any spiritually instructed man or woman in accordance with the knowledge and wisdom of god . 
true spiritual healing ( with few exceptions ) requires the committed believing of both the healer as well as the one being healed . 
such believing comes not from the shrouded secrets of mysticism , but from the revealed word of god . 
i guess there are those who have never been kissed before ( a rare and dying breed ) , except if you're child ? in which case it would be called experimenting . 
rarer still are those who have never been kissed before they reach the twenties . 
hardest to believe still , is that drew barrymore has never been kissed . 
despite all these hard to believe tit bits , there are people out there who have never truly been kissed , and who are still waiting for that right person to give them the wet , sloppy warm feeling of tongues intermingling , reassuring them that their search for true love is over . 
well , this movie is about a girl waiting for the right boy to give her the kiss of her life . 
and it's sweet . 
drew barrymore who shone in ? ever after' is wonderful as ? josie , grossy' , the high school dweeb who becase a professional editor , before being assigned by her paper to return to school as an undercover reporter . 
it addresses the issues of how a dweeb , becomes a prom queen and finds the man of her life all in one sitting . 
hard to believe , but possible . 
there may also be those who have been kissed before , but in fact , never truly been given the kiss . 
so this movie can be watched by those who are waiting for true love or those who are still searching for it . 
either way , it is one enjoyable sit , with a fairytale ending . 
note : some may consider portions of the following text to be spoilers . 
be forewarned . 
 " all the world's a stage and all the men and women merely players they have their exits and their entrances and one man in his time plays many parts " - excerpt from as you like it , act ii , scene 7 
when william shakespeare penned this passage , he could not have possibly envisioned a world in which the domestic activites in an abode would be broadcast across the continent , or where women would install webcams in their apartments in order to convert voyeurism into cash . 
this is the world of today , and it is the perfect climate to unveil a prototypical high-concept project like the truman show . 
truman burbank ( jim carrey ) seems to have the perfect life . 
he has a pretty , doting wife meryl ( laura linney ) , a comfortable insurance sales position , an immaculate suburban home in the idyllic island community of seahaven , a reliable childhood buddy marlon ( noah emmerich ) -- except for the dog that paws a greeting to him every morning and his hydrophobia , this is paradise . 
or so it would seem . 
bizarre , inexplicable incidents begin to crop up in truman's life . 
a lighting fixture unexpectedly plummets from the sky . 
a rainstorm which gives new meaning to the term 'isolated' follows him around . 
a radio broadcast appears to be describing his every move . 
for the first time in his life , it is beginning to dawn on truman that things are not what they appear to be . 
the truman show , directed by peter weir and written by andrew niccol , is a remarkably well-constructed film , paced perfectly with every scene fluidly leading into the next . 
balancing drama with humour , thoughtfulness with abandon , this is a film which addresses an intriguing and intricate concept with just the right mixture of sermonizing and whimsical fancy . 
in many ways , mr . niccol's screenplay mirrors the spirit of his previous gattaca -- both films focus on the theme of triumph of the human spirit over oppressive adversity , with pivotal , character-defining moments occurring at sea . 
although the film's rather conventional climax doesn't sustain the inspired dynamic achieved in the first two-thirds , and ultimately just falls short on delivering the intended emotional punch , there are moments through the truman show which are genuinely stirring and moving as truman attempts to make sense of his unraveling world and grasp the implications behind his discoveries of deception . 
despite the multitude of pertinent issues being broached by the film , it remains foremost a finely-crafted piece of entertainment , constantly light and accessible . 
the tone achieved is far too sunny for any sense of fearful paranoia to legitimately intrude , and as the carefully-stacked seahaven house of cards tumbles down , the film eschews any psychological ramifications for a man discovering that the fundamentals of his entire existence have been false . 
the end act of the truman show essentially boils down to a rehash of the reliable , crowdpleasing underdog vs . 
the system formula . 
while the film is an impressive realisation of an inspired concept , some elements are lacking . 
the device of mysterious lauren/sylvia ( natascha mcelhone ) as a contributing impetus to truman's growing awareness isn't exactly convincing . 
there's not much of a discernable spark between either the two characters or the actors themselves , and the scenes in which she indignantly confronts the megalomaniac christoff ( ed harris ) with regards to the moral ambiguity of his actions unnecessarily spells things out for the audience , thankfully avoided elsewhere in the film . 
in fact , although the film smartly restricts the number of scenes depicting the real world outside truman's artificial utopia to a mere handful of select reaction shots from enraptured gazers , it might have perhaps been even more indicting and damning to immerse itself even * more * deeply in the insulatory seahaven world , with the resultant effect that the repercussions felt as the film finally shifts outside the imposed bubble are all the more startling . 
still , the scathing commentary issued by this film is on target , and its insidiously oblique manner of delivery is far more effective in conveying the message than the more forthright anti-voyeuristic tirades such as that of the recent costa gavras film mad city . 
i've always believed that the versatile ms . linney possesses a tremendous comic gift -- she has always seems to have a impish gleam in her eyes -- and in the truman show she runs rampant with her duplicitous character , mischievously flashing a glazed , insanely jovial grin as she perkily recites impromptu product placement slogans . 
cheerfully going over the top , it's hilarious to watch her -- who would have ever guessed that she'd have the opportunity to outshine the reigning king of comedy in the laughs department of a film ? 
ms . linney is a delight in the film . 
but it is mr . carrey who rules the show here . 
he may not have been intuitively the most obvious choice to portray underdog hero truman burbank -- the role is seriously lacking in any of the frenetic comic interludes which typify his traditional parts -- but he brings to the character tremendous energy and eminent appeal : it's difficult not to root for truman . 
in a commanding performance , mr . carrey lends our protagonist an inherent sense of decency and integrity which makes him a genuinely engaging presence , and acquits himself impressively in this dramatic turn , demonstrating admirable restraint -- there's an early scene where he's down on his knees gardening , and given his past track record , one almost instinctively anticipates mr . carrey to pull one of more infamous , and in this case , wholly inappropriate sight gags . 
it's almost poetic how this notorious look-at-me actor successfully tones it down to play a character who's constantly the centre of attention . 
in addition to the fine performances by the bulk of the cast -- mr . emmerich is particularly noteworthy for issuing his character a sense of sturdy trustworthiness -- the film is immeasurably aided by wonderful production design by dennis gassner in creating truman's antiseptic , white picket-fenced smalltown utopia , and by burkhard dallwitz's original score . 
technical credits are first-rate all around . 
while the truman show is clearly a definitive high-concept film , it's not exactly a dazzlingly innovative one -- obvious predecessors utilising common elements abound , ranging from 1965's secret agent through to the groundbreaking british 1967 tv series the prisoner . 
all the same , this is a visionary , award-calibre film : entertaining , provocative , and intelligent . 
the curious ( and possibly disturbing ) thing may be that although upon first glance the plausibility of the film's concept seems unfathomably outrageous , it's abundantly clear that our society is rapidly approaching , if not actualisation , at least permissiveness of such a scenario . 
perhaps the highest compliment which can be paid to mr . weir is that his depiction of this bizarro state is so convincing that we accept it without question . 
perhaps we recognize a bit of ourselves in this world . 
in chocolat , a chocolate shop owner tells her customers to look into a spinning object of obscure textures , patterns , and lines , hoping she'll be able to foresee the kind of chocolate they'll most enjoy . 
some scoff the idea , but everyone who gazes into the complexity of the spinning object winds up seeing something different than the next , revealing personality traits which the person may not have known they had before . 
this can easily stand as a model for chocolat as a whole : on the surface , it appears to be a light , fluffy fable with no depth or true worth , but when one takes a second , deeper look , chocolat's true colors begin to shine through . 
making a bold statement about organized religion and those who practice it , lasse hallstrom's chocolat is flawlessly acted and meticulously crafted-not to mention one of the best films of the year . 
what gives chocolat its magic , much like hallstrom's 1999 winner of two academy awards , the cider house rules , is its willingness to say what's on its mind without holding back to prevent offending audiences . 
the bold and honest message hallstrom conveys with chocolat will no doubt outrage a select group of viewers , but those who are willing to suspend their bitterness because they feel they are being intimidated or attacked should find themselves to be in agreement with what the film says about narrow-mindedness . 
chocolat centers its story around the small french village of lansquenet , where majority rules , and the majority lives by only one law : religion . 
the bulk of the townspeople ( with few exceptions ) are preparing for the sacred time of abstinence , lent , but when the independent thinking , seemingly non-religious vianne rocher ( juliette binoche ) and her daughter anouk ( victoire thivisol ) make the village their home , the people will be tempted beyond belief by the mouth-watering confections in the chocolate shop vianne opens . 
many are predictably opposed and deeply offended by vianne's opening of the chocolate shop just in time for lent , especially the mayor , comte de reynaud ( a cartoon-like alfred molina ) , who will stop at nothing to put her out of business . 
on the other hand , the shop is a delight to others , including the cranky armande voizin ( judi dench ) , who sits day by day in vianne's shop , telling the single mother about her unfortunate detached relationship with her grandson ( aurelien parent-koening ) , which comes as a result of his mother ( carrie-ann moss ) believing armande is a bad influence , as she does not hold the same , strict religious beliefs that she does . 
also a fan of the chocolate is the nervous wreck josephine muscat , whose husband is constantly beating her , to whom vianne offers a home and befriends . 
juliette binoche is charming and honest as vianne , genuinely capturing her character's determination to turn the narrow-minded townspeople into more happy , independent human beings , but most of chocolat's success is unquestionably a result of the remarkable performances of the supporting actresses . 
lena olin , previously nominated for an oscar in 1989 , deserves her second nomination for her earnest , moving portrayal of a lost , scared woman torn between staying true to her battering , manipulative husband or leaving him to live the life which for which she longs . 
judi dench is sharp , incisive , and occasionally greatly touching as armande voizin . 
carrie ann-moss , in what is likely to be her first largely noticed ( and acclaimed ) role since the matrix , shows a more solid side of her acting skills not previously seen , crafting a character that the viewer both sympathizes with and despises simultaneously . 
victoire thivisol shows much promise as anouk , a young girl hoping her always-on-the-move mother will eventually settle down . 
a trade ad for chocolat sums up best the power the actresses have on screen with the tagline : " five extraordinary women , one extraordinary movie . " 
that's not to say the men don't do their share , though : alfred molina makes for a sly and utterly repugnant antagonist , hugh o'conor adds quite a bit of comic relief as the priest who seems to not even know why he is who he is , and johnny depp gives a strong performance as the pirate roux , who enters the film late in the game and sparks the romantic interest of vianne . 
the technical aspects of chocolat are strong across the board : lasse hallstrom directs his enchanting fable with great care , perfectly balancing the elements of each genre to be found within the film . 
cinematographer roger pratt brings an atmospheric , fairy tale look to the film , and rachel portman's masterful score is her best and most memorable since the cider house rules . 
chocolat , adapted by robert nelson jacobs from the joanne harris novel , is a wonderful little treat of a film , one that will most likely win over the hearts of audiences and the votes of academy members this winter , and the aggressive backing of miramax films assures the latter . 
while not as powerful as the cider house rules , lasse hallstrom's chocolat is a film which works on all levels-as a drama , a comedy , a fable , a romance , and a fairy tale . 
and it even lives up to its name : it is delicious to savor the taste of , easy to digest , and , like all excellent chocolate , it is memorable for days afterward . 
the bottom line : chocolat is pure pleasure . 
while alex browning ( devon sawa ) waits at jfk to leave for a school trip to paris , bad omens seem to surround him . 
as soon as he buckles into the plane , he has a vision of the plane exploding seconds after take-off . 
when the vision begins to come true , alex bolts for the door , dragging several students and a teacher in his wake . 
the plane takes off without them and explodes just as alex predicted . 
he becomes an object of fear and suspicion among the community , and the tension only increases as the survivors begin to die . 
alex and another survivor , clear rivers ( ali larter ) , investigate the suspicious " suicide " of a friend , and a mortician ( tony " candyman " todd ) clues them in to the truth : alex interrupted death's design by saving people who should have died in the explosion , and death will want to claim its rightful victims . 
in order to save himself and the others , alex will have to figure out death's new plan and thwart it . 
of the countless horror films that have competed for a piece of the " scream " audience , " final destination " is the best so far . 
talented young screenwriter jeffrey reddick offers a fresh variation on a familiar formula . 
we've seen hundreds of movies where a group of teenagers are murdered one-by-one by a faceless slasher , but reddick cuts out the hockey-masked middle-man and makes the villain death itself . 
first-time feature director james wong made the most of that premise . 
every scene is permeated with creepiness and foreboding , reminding us that death is everywhere , can come at anytime . 
everyday objects and events vibrate with menace . 
the most amusing harbinger of doom : john denver's " rocky mountain high , " which is played several times in the movie before someone dies . 
 ( the link is that denver died in a plane crash , and the song includes a line about fire in the sky . ) 
the performances are stronger than those usually elicited by teen horror . 
devon sawa , who previously starred in another horror flick , " idle hands , " gives a frantic and convincing lead performance . 
kerr smith is carter hogan , an antagonist of alex's whose quick temper causes him to pulled off the fatal plane . 
smith plays carter as filled with anger and confusion that constantly threatens to bubble over into violence . 
seann william scott , who's also in theaters right now in " road trip , " plays the somewhat dim billy hitchcock and provides a needed counterpoint to the intensity of alex and carter . 
tony todd's one-scene cameo is delicious but all too brief . 
bottom line : watchable teen fright flicks are few and far between , but this destination is worth visiting . 
assume nothing . 
the phrase is perhaps one of the most used of the 1990's , as first impressions and rumors are hardly ever what they seem to be . 
the phrase especially goes for oscar novak , an architect who is the main focus of three to tango , a delightful , funny romantic comedy about assumptions and being yourself . 
novak ( matthew perry ) , a shy , clumsy , chicago based architect , along with openly gay partner , peter steinberg ( oliver platt ) , fights for projects day in and day out . 
one of these is the job of restoring a popular building for charles newman ( dylan mcdermott ) , a rich , well-known businessman . 
charles immediately takes a liking to oscar , as he enjoys his personality and sense of humor . 
seeing oscar as someone he could trust , charles asks him to watch his girlfriend , an unpredictable , adventurous girl named amy post ( neve campbell ) , who makes a living by blowing glass . 
charles wants to know who she talks to , what she does , and where she goes . 
the point ? 
to make sure she's not seeing someone else , of course . 
oscar gladly takes the job , and meets amy at an art show of hers , and sparks fly between the two from the get go . 
oscar feels he has found the one meant for him , and he is content with the idea of being with amy . 
well , another popular phrase of the 90's is " all good things must come to an end , " and this stays true for oscar as well . 
charles walks in on amy and oscar having a drink one night , as oscar and amy have become great friends , but he doesn't seem to mind . 
why is this ? 
he thinks oscar is gay . 
he's not afraid to share this with him either . 
oscar stands in shock after the words , " i swear if you weren't gay oscar , i'd have to kill you , " are muttered flamboyantly from charles' mouth . 
the word spreads instantly through town . 
will oscar " come out " of his supposed gayness , or will he tell everyone that he isn't ? 
one would immediately think he would deny the fact , but numerous occurrences come to oscar , which result in the fact that if he denies the fact , he could lose his job with charles . 
matthew perry doesn't escape his character as chandler on the already classic t . v . 
comedy " friends , " as both oscar novak and chandler are clueless , shy , and sensitive . 
nonetheless , perry is hilarious here , and shows that he can handle drama , as obviously , his character suffers quite a bit here . 
it's wonderful to see neve campbell outside of a horror movie , ( she was the star of scream 1 and 2 , and the upcoming scream 3 ) as she handles comedy superbly here . 
her voice , smile , and personality are more than perfect for romantic comedies- stay with this genre , neve . 
neve is delightful as her conflicted character , who feels love for oscar , but knows , based on rumors , that he is gay . 
as usual , campbell is likable as her likable character . 
unlike the other two leads here , dylan mcdermott is flat in his dialogue , and is never convincing . 
when his character his present , mcdermott sets a dull tone to the scene with his horrible acting . 
stick to the t . v . 
drama , the practice , dylan . 
the major weak spot in three to tango is the direction of damon santostefano . 
no originality or technique is used whatsoever . 
three to tango is lucky that the script is so edgy and that perry and campbell are wonderful in comedy , or else the film would have been a disaster , as it is just plain boring to look at . 
three to tango is a film done many times before , as the plot is suspiciously close to 1998's the object of my affection , but the plot has never been completed so well . 
three to tango's script , written by rodney patrick vaccaro and aline brosh mckenna is fun , fast , and funny , delivering not only original , hilarious gay jokes ( not your run of the mill material ) , but a certain snappiness in the dialogue between characters that always keeps you smiling . 
unlike last summer's south park : bigger , longer , and uncut and 1997's in & out , three to tango is a comedy in which the gay element is not crude or vulgar . 
the script is wise to take this route , as gays can't ( i don't think so , anyway ) be offended by this light , playful comedy . 
 ( to prove this , a gay couple was in the audience who were laughing constantly . ) 
three to tango's climax is a hilarious , clever scene that is pure irony based on the outcome of most romantic-mistaken identity comedies . 
three to tango is a gem . 
the bottom line : three to tango is a light , sharp , snappy romantic comedy with a superb ending , and great stars . 
one of the better romantic comedies of 1999 . 
the question isn't why has grease been reissued . 
the answer to that one is easy : to celebrate the movie's 20th anniversary and to make more bucks for paramount's coffers because john travolta is once again a hot commodity . 
no , the question that ought to be asked is : should grease be reissued ? 
the answer is not an easy one . 
grease is a fun movie , an entertaining fantasy of the '50s , embodying all the cliches of that era . 
the music is lively and the dance numbers , choreographed by patricia birch , are energetic and high-spirited . 
travolta was at his pinnacle as a sexual icon , cool , but non-threatening . 
but grease didn't break any new cinematic ground . 
it was not a milestone in movie history such as citizen kane or easy rider . 
what grease is - or has become - is the highest-grossing musical in film history . 
ok , let's not be a spoilsport . 
grease is a fun and entertaining movie , even though it stretches credulity to see such performers as travolta , olivia newton-john , taxi's jeff conaway and the multi-talented stockard channing try to act like high schoolers . 
it's nostalgic to recall how good a dancer travolta was , and it's sad to think of what could have been had not a few missteps sidetracked his career . 
he could have become a musical comedy star in the tradition of gene kelly . 
cinematically , the musical comedy has basically gone the way of the dinosaur . 
between grease and 1996's evita . , you can probably count the number of movie musicals on one hand . 
two reasons have contributed to the demise of the genre : the first is that movie audiences have become more sophisticated , no , make that cynical and jaded . 
today , if a character began to dance and sing with no orchestra in sight , he or she would probably be hooted off the screen . 
today's audiences lack the innocence , that belief in movie magic that is required for a musical to succeed . 
secondly , a lack of talent . 
performers with the charisma , the style , the larger-than-life panache of fred astaire , gene kelly , ginger rogers and judy garland are gone . 
most singers and dancers remain on the stage , and those who do succeed in movies usually wind up in serious dramatic parts . 
a good example is gregory hines , one of the greatest dancers in the world . 
he danced a bit in the cotton club , tap and white nights , but those were essentially dramatic vehicles . 
so , perhaps the reissue of grease can serve a purpose . 
if audiences show enough interest , meaning if the re-release earns the studio enough revenue , it may spark a revival in movie musicals . 
perhaps not original musicals such as singin' in the rain , an american in paris or seven brides for seven brothers , but for broadway properties that have been in the planning stages for film adaptations for several years . 
at one time or another , according to the industry rumor mill , hollywood has been set to create an animated version of andrew lloyd webber's cats , a filming of the popular phantom of the opera as well as les miserables and chicago , the latter reportedly to star madonna . 
so , let this grease be the forerunner of an armada of movie musicals . 
let grease be the word that sparks this revival . 
let's face it : since waterworld floated by , the summer movie season has grown * very * stale . 
with no new eye-candy for four weeks straight , we've had to sustain ourselves on the quasi-nutritional value of cheatin' husbands , traveling chocolate salesmen , and computer- generated serial killers . 
sigh . 
thank god for desperado . 
the freewheeling sequel to el mariachi--director robert rodriguez's notorious $7000 debut--stars a cool antonio banderas as the returning guitarist with no name . 
he's a man in black with revenge on his mind , and an arsenal in his case . 
 ( the woman he loved was killed in the first film . ) 
so , he spends the entire story shooting drug dealers ; sort of a tex-mex version of the punisher , if you will . 
there isn't much of an emotional core to desperado . 
rodriguez is having too much fun finding new and innovative ways to pay homage to john woo . 
 ( and sergio leone . . . 
and sam peckinpah . . . ) 
some may wince at the body count--at least 100 graphic killings is a fair estimate--but it's all played for laughs . 
big , broad , hispanic laughs that , for me , recall the physical comedy of blake edwards and his pink panther films . 
sick , slick fun . 
if beavis and butthead had a favorite movie , from dusk till dawn would probably be it . 
scripted by quentin tarantino and directed by robert rodriguez ( desperado ) , the movie panders to the very worst in sex and violence -- and is incredibly fun to watch . 
it starts off as a pulp fiction-type crime story , with criminal brothers george clooney and tarantino robbing a convenience store . 
because this is a tarantino movie , however , it's not just a case of pull the gun and take the loot , it's a case of a hole being shot through someone's hand , a man on fire jumping out behind the counter and the entire store blowing up as they drive away . 
the opening scene sets the tone for the rest of the movie -- everything overdone and nothing as it seems . 
clooney and tarantino bring a hostage to the motel and then hijack an rv with a family in it . 
harvey keitel plays the backslidden ex-preacher and juliette lewis his daughter , whom registered sex-pervert tarantino eyes endlessly . 
you know you're mentally unbalanced when you find lewis the least bit attractive , although she's not nearly as obnoxious as usual in from dusk till dawn . 
the first half of the movie has the criminals and hostages trying to get to and through the mexico border , clooney's strategy involving hiding in the rv shower while lewis is on the toilet . 
it does its trick ; the border guard takes one look at lewis relieving herself and immediately goes blind , never noticing clooney or tarantino . 
once they get to mexico , it's time to wait at the rendezvous point , a topless bar called titty twister where we're once again reminded tarantino wrote the movie as he drinks champagne off the foot of a stripper . 
finally , after about ten minutes of intercut boob shots and clooney forcing keitel and lewis to drink with him , the stripper turns into a vampire . 
soon half the people in the bar are vampires and the other half fall or fight back . 
that's right , we've come all this way to see a vampire movie . 
but like everything else , tarantino takes this age-old genre and twists it to his own ends to produce over-the-top entertainment . 
so we get holy water condom balloons , heads rolling , quadruple impalement on an overturned table and keitel getting bitten by a vampire and announcing he only has a few minutes left before he becomes " a lap dog of satan . " 
the from dusk till dawn dialogue is 100% tarantino , hovering between absurd and disgusting ( as when they're entering the nightclub and cheech marin announces the main attractions of the titty twister ) , but always entertaining , and is a huge reason the movie is so much fun to watch instead of being one more second-rate gorefest . 
clooney , keitel and especially tarantino are so over-the-top with their delivery that the dialogue is that much more hilarious , ensuring not one second of from dusk till dawn is taken the least bit seriously . 
stuff like this would be terrible in any other movie , but tarantino and rodriguez know exactly what to do to entertain people , even if there's absolutely no message or meaning to from dusk till dawn . 
pulp fiction had the vulgarity and violence for a reason , but this movie just throws it out for cheap entertainment . 
from dusk till dawn isn't the classic of modern cinema that pf is , but is does prove you can do a good job making a really bad movie . 
the small-scale film , in limited release , " waking ned devine " is a pleasant excursion to a time and place which allows the audience to absorb the full texture of a small town . 
filled with breathtaking scenery , 'characters' , and delightful music , the movie would be interesting even without a plot . 
the story contains several surprises which are best left unmentioned in a review . 
the film starts out with a sharp opening , which gives us a taste of what is to follow : country folk with an inclination for a bit of larceny . 
what gets things going is the fact that a winner of the lottery is apparently one of the residents in the small town ( pop 52 ) of tullymore . 
who that person is , and how to share in the good fortune is the mission of two longtime friends jackie ( ian bannen ) and michael ( david kelly ) . 
part detectives , part scalawags , they have to stay alert to the changing circumstances they face as the story unfolds . 
the village consists of several amusing characters . 
a clueless pig farmer , temporary priest , and a witch . 
there's also the lotto man who must be satisfied that everything is on the up-and-up . 
there are no hollywood touches to this film - except for the outer space introduction [ ! ] . 
pacing is right . 
towards the end , it runs a bit out of steam , but that's okay because for most of the 90 minutes we've been interested in the goings on . 
a mixture of laughs and ( occasional ) sentiment - all the right emotions are engaged . 
in one brief dream sequence - you'll know it when you see it - a fantastic combination of color and music transports the characters to a place you really hope exists . 
one of the key moments in the film . 
the music , available on cd ( london 289 460 939-2 ) follows the same arc as the movie and is well worth considering . 
a fine film that's for everybody except action fans . 
somewhat like 'the englishman who went up a hill and came down a mountain , ' . . . 
but livelier . 
warren beatty's " bulworth " is a caustic political comedy that doesn't attack any particular political group , but rather the ingrained insincerity that has infected the american political system . 
some might think this film is vulgar , and in many ways it is . 
however , as loud and raucous as it is , " bulworth " speaks the truth , which is almost always ugly to hear . 
beatty , who directed the film and co-wrote the script with jeremy pikser ( " the lemon sisters " ) , stars as incumbent u . s . senator jay billington bulworth , who has one of the best politician names in cinema history . 
bulworth is a democrat , and in beatty's view , he is symbolic of everything that has gone wrong with the current democratic party . 
once an ideological liberal ( like beatty still is ) , bulworth has long since succumbed to the materialistic pressures of washington . 
instead of waging the battles for the impoverished and the downtrodden , which was once the calling card of democrats , bulworth has become another sell-out money hound - if he's not accepting illegal bribes from the insurance lobby or taking campaign contributions from the chinese , he's making wind-bag speeches that start with the amusingly clintonesqe statement , " america is standing on the doorstep of a new millennium . . . . 
blah , blah , blah . " 
when the film opens , it is a few days before the 1996 primary elections , and bulworth is sitting at his desk weeping because he realizes how corrupt he has become . 
in a fit of desperation , he takes out a $10 million life insurance policy from a dirty insurance rep played by paul sorvino ( part of a shady lobby deal to kill a threatening bill in committee ) , and then hires a hit man to kill him , although he doesn't know who the assassin will be , or when the hit will take place . 
knowing that he will soon be dead , bulworth unleashes his own brand of political rhetoric on the world , which is made up of politically incorrect truths about the state of american politics and the society in general . 
at a compton church , he tells the group of african-americans that they will have no power in the u . s . unless they " put down that malt liquor and chicken wings , and get behind somebody other than a running back who stabs his wife . " 
later , in a particularly hilarious sequence , bulworth mixes with the hollywood elite , then insults the quality of their movies and informs them that the only reason he's there is because " my guys always put the big jews on my schedule . " 
all throughout this physically and politically suicidal escapade , bulworth's chief of staff , dennis murphy ( oliver platt ) , follows behind in a state of constant shock and bewilderment . 
platt has some of the movie's funniest scenes , as he makes murphy into a politically savvy but nonetheless clueless assistant who is forced to watch his own career teeter at the brink of being flushed down the toilet . 
his constant half-truth-telling and spin-doctoring to cover bulworth's stampede is equaled in its perversion only by a self-righteous reporter ( nora dunn ) who acts like murphy's refusal to explain bulworth's actions ( something he really cannot do ) is somehow an act of treason . 
when bulworth decides he wants to live after all , and therefore must constantly evade a grim-looking assassin to be who's trailing him at every turn , he hides out in the ghetto , complete with a stereotypical gangsta wardrobe which he wears to one of his television interviews . 
at this point , beatty abandons much of the political aspect and dives into a cartoonish exploration of the black inner-city experience . 
bulworth becomes friendly with a young black woman named nina ( halle berry ) , who he meets at the harlem church rally . 
she has a tough-talking brother who is deep in debt to a local gangster named l . d . 
 ( don cheadle of " boogie nights " ) , who also becomes involved in bulworth's campaign . 
some of the scenes in the ghetto ring true , but much of it feels like a lighter version of scenes depicted in more intense inner-city films like " boyz'n'hood " ( 1991 ) and " menace ii society " ( 1993 ) . 
 " bulworth's " chief liability is beatty's insistence on having his character adopt a clumsy style of rap as his new communication device . 
instead of speaking at political rallies , he breaks into a kind of rhythmless rap style that is a reminder of why almost all hip-hop stars are black . 
it's hard to tell whether beatty is being humorous by being so bad , or whether he's actually that incompetent . 
at any rate , the rap sounds more run d . m . c . 
than snoop doggy dogg , which makes the film seem dated instead of contemporary . 
beatty would have been better off simply adopting some of the inner-city lingo and working that into his speeches , instead of trying to sound like l . l . cool j . 
other than that , " bulworth " hits all its targets with wry , hilarious accuracy . 
the film is like a letter bomb to the democratic party , and even if you don't agree with beatty's liberal message about the unrequited duties of the federal government , it is hard to deny the impact the film has in exploring the monetary and moral debauchery that infests modern politics . 
unlike " primary colors " which opened earlier this year , " bulworth " doesn't try to tip-toe around the truly painful issues that hit close to home - instead , it takes them dead-on . 
when i saw the trailer for this film , i laughed harder than i had in quite some time . 
while i was therefore pretty well psyched to see it , i was ever mindful that a trailer can make even the most mediocre film look good . 
i'm happy to say that there's something about mary is not one of those trailer let-downs . 
in fact , watching this film was quite a fine way to spend two hours . 
the film opens up in flashback to 1985 , at a high school in cumberland , rhode island . 
ted stroehmann ( ben stiller ) is a social reject who can't seem to get a date to the upcoming prom , until he comes to the defense of the mentally retarded warren ( w . 
earl brown ) , who's being harassed by one of the school jocks . 
it seems warren's sister is the campus queen , mary jensen ( cameron diaz ) , who is impressed with ted's willingness to stand up for her defenseless brother , despite a very real chance of getting beaten up . 
mary takes an immediate liking to ted and asks him to the prom . 
ted was just flattered that she even knew his name . 
unfortunately , prom night is ruined when ted has an accident with his zipper ( at which every man in the theater will wince ) , and is sent to the hospital . 
fast forward to the present , where ted has cleaned himself up , now writes for a magazine , but has weekly therapy sessions in order to deal with his obsession of the past 13 years : mary , whom he hasn't seen since that fateful day . 
with the help of his friend dom ( chris elliott ) , ted hires slimy private investigator pat healy ( matt dillon ) to track down his only love . 
however , when pat finds mary , he falls for her too , and soon the both of them are competing for her affections . 
there's something about mary is directed by bobby and peter farrelly , who brought us dumb and dumber and kingpin . 
not exactly intelligent comedies , they are of the guilty pleasure variety where you might not want your friends or co-workers to think you had such a great time watching them . 
with their current film , the farrelly brothers have come up with something you'll not only enjoy , but also won't mind talking about the next day at the water cooler . 
the film succeeds in employing a pretty wide range of comedic styles , from the subtle to the ridiculous , and while a few of the gags might be offensive to some ( seeming like residuals from the farrelly brothers' last two films ) they almost all work . 
i have not seen many movies in the recent past that shoot for the mark and so often hit it dead on . 
one minute you'll be laughing at something ted says , and the next you'll be howling at the sight of a dog dragging him across the floor of mary's apartment . 
one of the great things this film has going for it is ben stiller . 
he is perfectly cast in the role of ted , because he's a guy who just looks awkward in almost every situation . 
ted's a nice fellow and tries to do his best , but for some reason or another things just don't always work out . 
it's comical , but also has that kind of appeal where you really feel for the him and want him to come out on top . 
actually , i've liked stiller since he did a short which aired on saturday night live back in the mid-eighties . 
the film was like a theatrical trailer for a spoof on the tom cruise/paul newman film the color of money , entitled the hustler of money . 
in it , stiller played wince ( not vince ) who is taken under the wing of an older man ( played by john mahoney ) to become a big-time bowling hustler . 
it was parody at its finest , more of which showed up in the short-lived " the ben stiller show " on the fox network in late '92/early '93 . 
like " the critic " ( which aired on abc , then fox ) , i still mourn that show's cancellation . 
cameron diaz is absolutely enchanting for most of the film , although her character seems obsessed with perfection in the men she dates , and some of the qualities she looks for make mary look paper-thin at times . 
however , diaz pulls the role off with such panache and charm , that you can still see why she's got guys just falling over each other to be with her . 
heck , i even found her laugh to be cute , even though i thought it was annoying during an appearance she made on the tonight show last week . 
my girlfriend remarked that matt dillon doesn't change , and you know , it's really true . 
he and ralph macchio must hang out or something . 
maybe they live in dick clark's pool house . 
anyway , here's another good piece of casting , as dillon slips beautifully into the role of the guy who tries to worm his way into mary's heart . 
the supporting performances are also good . 
chris elliott has a bigger part than in the abyss ( yes , check it out next time ) , and less annoying than in cabin boy . 
lin shae , who plays mary's neighbor magda ( and also appeared as the landlady in kingpin ) , provides some good laughs , especially in scenes with her benji-like dog , which acts as the focal point for a few of the funniest moments of the film . 
lee evans , as mary's friend tucker , displays a flexibility in acting and accents which surprises and contributes to an interesting plot twist . 
the farrelly brothers and scriptwriters ed decter and john j . strauss keep the comedic pacing going so that there aren't any noticeable times where the film drags . 
the only problem i saw was their use of a couple of musicians who provide segues between several key scenes . 
they appear out of nowhere and actually sing plot-relevant information right toward the camera . 
it's a device which was amusing for about three seconds when they opened the film . 
after that it got a little annoying , and it's unfortunate that those spots interrupt what would otherwise be a smooth flow . 
fortunately , filled with sight gags , humorous lines , and solid comedic acting , there's something about mary will still have you laughing after you leave the theater . 
plot : a young recruit gets plucked out of nowhere by the number one gangster in london and quickly becomes a staple by his side . 
but this new guy is not like all the others , he's got ambition , he's got goals and he loves everything he sees about being the number one gangster . 
violence , lots of swearing and betrayals ensue . 
critique : a very good , serious-minded , unique british gangster flick which misses the " great " mark by way of an annoying voice-over popping up throughout the film and a so-so ending . 
here's yet another cool crime movie that actually manages to bring something new into the mix . 
okay , so it's not entirely new , but it's definitely original when all put together as done here . 
the thing i liked most about this movie was its authentic portrayal of the time period in which it was taking place . 
it's 1968 and these dudes are looking good ! 
yes , it's all about the suits , fellas . . . the 
italian shoes , the cufflinks , the ties and the birds ( that's ladies , for those uninitiated ) hanging around you . 
here are a bunch of horrible men , gangsters if you will , looking sharp , talking shit and busting heads all over the place . 
but that's not the basis of this movie . 
the basis of this film comes in the relationship between the number one gangster in the group , the excellent david thewlis , and one of his cronies , paul bettany , also extremely good in this film , and how the power , sex appeal and coolness of one , affects the other . 
you know how there are always these " hanger-on " gangster types who latch on to the godfathers , the leaders , the top dogs of every crime organization ? 
well , most of the time , these dudes are screened beforehand and are loyal to only one person . . . that 
is , their boss . 
so all the gangster number one needs to worry about is his enemies on the other side of the fence . 
but this film brings the betrayals , the messed up loyalties , the honor codes among bad guys into play within the same group and presents it in quite the stylistic package . 
of course , director paul mcguigan isn't trying to be guy ritchie here , and doesn't over-stylize his presentation , jazz it all up with a hip soundtrack or add any humor to the mix . 
nope , he goes straight for the serious stuff and develops at least two particular scenes which are still embedded in my mind as i type this . 
the first is a confrontation sequence between bettany and a man from which he's attempting to sway some information and it is downright nasty ! 
 ( " look into my eyes ! " ) 
in fact , the last time that i've seen a guy so scared in a movie was john turturro in that forest scene from the coen brothers' miller's crossing . 
scary shite . 
but there's an ever better scene than that in this film . 
this one features bettany , once again , slowly torturing , hacking and beating the living piss out of a rival gangster ( from that man's point-of-view ) , but not before turning on a quaint little tune in the background and removing all of his own expensive clothes , one by one ( that's right , he " does " the guy in his underwear ) . 
that scene is also in tune with some of the obvious phallic and homoerotic undertones present throughout this film , especially in the relationship between bettany and his boss ( why does he get so upset when he falls in love with that woman ? ) . 
but the flick's not perfect . 
in fact , i didn't mind malcolm mcdowell's voice-over narration at first , but as the film grew into a major flashback ( most of the film is presented as such ) , he came in every now and then , and rarely added anything of interest to the plot . 
all he seemed to do was swear and call people the c-word umpteen times , and even described one scene as it was happening ( " . . . so 
i opened the door , then went up the lift , etc . . . . " -it's 
like , yeah , i know that already , i could see it on the screen ! ! 
overdone . ) . 
i also didn't quite " buy " the ending of the movie , which despite being original , seemed a little unbelievable , especially when you consider that it's supposed to be taking place 30 years later , and folks still seem to be holding grudges , still in love , still living in the same apartments ? ? ! ? 
i mean , c'mon . . . it's 30 years , man ! ! 
i don't know , somehow it didn't work all that well for me . 
but one of my favorite genres has always been the crime movies , and this one is a decent addition to the lot . 
forget the lame title and malcolm mcdowell's narration of the obvious plot points , and concentrate on the film's stronger attributes such as its style , the exquisite atmosphere of the time period , its original look at the gangster dynamic within the same group , its memorable sequences and the solid performances from its two main leads , bettany and thewlis . 
incidentally , unlike a few of the gangster flicks that i mention below , this one is in no way a parody or homage to this genre of films . . . it's the real deal ! 
note : this film is packed with strong accents all around , which makes it hard to make out some of the words from time to time . 
it's also quite violent and i don't remember any film that used the c-word as much as this one , so leave the kids at home for this one . . . 
 ; ) 
where's joblo coming from ? 
american psycho ( 10/10 ) - a clockwork orange ( 9/10 ) - donnie brasco ( 8/10 ) - fight club ( 10/10 ) - get carter ( 7/10 ) - godfather ( 10/10 ) - godfather ii ( 10/10 ) - goodfellas ( 10/10 ) - lock , stock & two smoking barrels ( 8/10 ) - pulp fiction ( 8/10 ) - reservoir dogs ( 9/10 ) 
bruce lee was a bigger-than-life martial artist ( and ) actor . 
bruce's unique character ( i . e . , self-produced sound effects , etc . ) and seemingly perfected martial art and physique were all well portrayed by the actor , james lee . 
the story is told from his wife linda's point of view where she put a lot of family and practical side of bruce lee's life . 
however , you can't help but like , whenever the fight scenes are on , what he can does with his body and that familiar bruce attitude and character . 
i also like the little bits of insight scenes about bruce lee's life before he became famous : scenes like bruce practicing pronunciation of english . 
it seemed as if he was no better than anybody else . 
scenes like bruce delivering chinese food as a delivery boy ridding a bike through the american college looking at the ( all-white ) students , cheerleaders , and athletes . 
it seemed he too wished for the american dreams and hopes . 
in conclusion , the movie was well made , it produced a realization of who bruce lee was , and actor james lee was so much like bruce you have to remind yourself that he is just an actor . 
and the fighting scenes were all excellent . 
so go see it and enjoy the movie . 
p . s . if you have seen the movie unforgiven by clint eastwood , then the feeling left after dragon was very much like the feeling you got after the unforgiven . 
clint eastwood , in his ripe old age , is cashing one talent in for another . 
midnight in the garden of good and evil is an eastwood-directed film clint isn't even in , and it's damn good . 
adapted from a best-selling john berendt novel based on true events , this movie is set in the bizarre georgia town of savannah , where people walk invisible dogs and attach horseflies to their head . 
and that's just the mayor . 
as director and producer , eastwood contributes a self- indulgent but very competent 150 minutes , neatly balancing drama , suspense and humor . 
like all great movies , midnight in the garden has a lot of funny moments that spring from the characters themselves , and not from some contrived , juvenile intrusion . 
the acting , from big-time stars john cusack and kevin spacey , is as good as you'd expect , but it's the supporting stable that gives the movie its offbeat charm . 
cusack plays a free-lance reporter sent to savannah to write a fluff story for town & country magazine about one of eccentric millionaire spacey's parties . 
lots of food , beverages and gunplay . 
yes , an employee of spacey's has a huge argument in front of cusack and later turns up dead . 
it seems like a simple matter of self- defense -- the guy threatened spacey , shot at him , missed , then spacey took him out -- but being a movie , there's much more to it than that , and cusack decides to stay in town and write a book about the murder , a book which will eventually become a movie he will star in . 
the weird circle of entertainment . 
this is where the stable of supporting characters comes in . 
there's the requisite sexy woman ( alison " nepotist's daughter " eastwood ) , the strange piano player , the voodoo woman and the transvestite . 
miss chablis deserves a paragraph of his/her own , as the stealer of every scene she appears in -- what would this movie be without the castilian scene and her testimony ? 
chablis , playing herself , is five times funnier than reigning drag queen rupaul , but never seems exploited as the movie's comic relief or out of place in a basically serious movie . 
there are also a fair share of courtroom scenes , which these days almost never seem welcome in a movie , but even here clint manages to keep the movie fascinating . 
certainly the characterizations of the judge and spacey's lawyer both help immensely , as does having the fly-guy as the jury's foreman . 
it's here we realize the case boils down to an indictment of spacey's homosexuality . 
yes , spacey had a sexual relationship with the dead man -- before he shot him , of course . 
midnight in the garden of good and evil isn't a classic , but it is one of the better celebrity-directed , true-story best-seller adaptations out there . 
likewise , no one from this movie will be getting any oscar nominations , but the performances are all great . 
in fact , i'd almost recommend that the academy add a best supporting transvestite category . 
serving america for more than 1/25th of a century ! 
meet joe black is your classic boy-meets-girl , boy-likes-girl , boy-gets-killed-in-horrible-accident , supernatural-entity-takes-over-boy's-body , supernatural-entity-falls-in-love-with-girl story . 
based on the 1934 film death takes a holiday , meet joe black is a well acted romantic drama which explores the meanings of life and love . 
william parrish ( anthony hopkins ) is a billionaire businessman on the brink of his 65th birthday . 
he has built a huge media empire , and raised two beautiful daughters , allison ( marcia gay harden ) and susan ( claire forlani ) . 
william has been able to negotiate his way out of many tough spots . . . but he has suddenly begun fearing his own mortality , the one situation he won't be able to talk his way out of . 
and he has good reason to fear , for death himself is stalking him . 
however , death has a deal to make . 
death has taken possession of a man who has recently died ( brad pitt ) , and wants william to be his guide in a holiday among the living . 
in return , william gets to live a few extra days . 
of course , he agrees . 
death , under the human name of " joe black " , gets to experience life as a complete innocent . 
he never before has experienced the simple pleasures of a springy matters or peanut butter . 
and he's not quite compared for the more complex pleasures when he and susan fall in love . 
but , is their affair doomed to an early demise ? 
at nearly three hours in length , meet joe black is a little bit on the leisurely side , though it never gets boringly lengthy . 
instead , the film gets a chance to develop some nicely textured characters and situations . 
you get to soak in and enjoy the atmosphere , rather than being hurriedly rushed through it . 
the romantic angle works well , though , surprisingly , the interactions between joe black and william parrish are more interesting than those with his daughter . 
this is most likely due to anthony hopkins , who once again displays his superb acting skills . 
william is a desperate man who has had a seemingly ideal life , and doesn't want to let it go . 
by contrast , claire forlani is merely the romantic interest . 
she gets to show joe the ropes of love , but is hardly as interesting a character . 
as joe black , brad pitt seems a bit stilted . 
granted , he's supposed to be out-of-place , but the overly formal technique used by pitt begins to distract from the role . 
still , he is able to hold his own , and over the course of the three hours , his character begins to grow on you . 
the main character who seems out of place here is drew ( jake weber ) , an ambitious executive in williams' company who is joe black's main rival for susan's affections . 
weber plays the character with a hammy relish reminiscent of snidley whiplash . 
this cartoonish foil an aberration in a film filled many more dimensional characters . 
the supernatural elements of the film are handled murkily , but never distractingly so . 
we never learn what is the exact nature of death , or why he's never done something like this before . 
it actually gets a bit creepy when death talks to the dying in their own voices/accents . 
 ( his initial conversations with hopkins sound shockingly like hannibal lecter . . . ) 
and the ultimate resolution to one of the film's supernatural problems seems , well , somewhat superficial . 
still , even with the film's length , it was a pleasant time at the movies , something you wouldn't necessarily expect from a film about death . . . but one which meet joe black delivers anyhow . 
buffalo ? 66 is a very rarely known movie that stars vincent gallo and christina ricci . 
gallo plays a very troubled man , who was sent to jail for gambling . 
once out of jail , he must visit his parents , who he told he was married . 
the truth is he isn't married . 
to try to impress them , he kidnaps a girl ( christina ricci ) from a tap dancing class to act as his wife . 
the film is very cheaply made , and it shows it throughout a lot of the movie , but you don't need money to make a good film . 
buffalo ? 66 doesn't always stay with the realistic concept , and sometimes goes through outrageous events . 
gallo's parents , played by angelica huston and ben gazarra , are two very strange individuals . 
the mother plays a football fanatic and the father plays a quiet man with odd habits . 
gallo and ricci arrive at his parent's house , and some extremely funny scenes take place within the house . 
ricci's performance during the scene at gallo's parent's home are very well done . 
there is constantly humor involved in the interesting dinner table scenes . 
the way the movie was filmed in this particular part of the movie were interesting and creative . 
they seemed very mediocre , but they worked out just fine . 
gallo's character is developed very well . 
the impression that he is very depressed and confused is very clear . 
gallo gives a performance that makes you believe what the character is going through . 
his character goes through many , many problems , just like many people in real life . 
this character seemed very realistic to me . 
ricci's character is funny and different . 
she doesn't care much that she has been kidnaped , in fact , she falls in love the man who kidnaped her ! 
ricci is a very wonderful actress and she is starting to get the recognition that she deserves . 
buffalo ? 66 isn't all laughs though . 
many scenes are very dramatic and depressing . 
gallo's character was so realistic , he was extremely disturbing . 
some scenes are supposed to come off as funny , but they actually seemed sad and real to life . 
the film sometimes drags along , not giving much material . 
i really would have liked to see gallo's parents a lot more , and i would have liked to see the characters developed more . 
overall , buffalo ? 66 isn't as good as some people put it up to be . 
the bottom line- a few hysterical scenes save this film from sinking to the bottom . 
after being hypnotized , a man believes there is a ghost in his house . 
the review 
two low-key summer horror films have become surprise financial successes this year : the blair witch project and the sixth sense . 
each has made well over $100 million in north america , based on a combination of strong word of mouth and clever advertising . 
if a film's box office take were based primarily on its quality , stir of echoes would join blair and sense in grossing far more money than expected , for it is as scary , if not scarier than the other two . 
writer/director david koepp has given artisan entertainment , the folks who distributed blair witch a second creepy hit . 
the story gets going after tom witzky ( bacon ) , an average blue-collar dad , gets hypnotized by his wife maggie's ( erbe ) sister lisa ( douglas ) at a party . 
while the hypnosis goes as expected to the party-goers , it triggers something in tom's head . 
things begin to change around him ( blinking red lights let off a strange hum , for example ) , and he fights to stay in control of his own senses . 
where these experiences take tom , maggie and their son jake ( cope ) , who tom thinks might have some answers , is down a dark path that will scare and disturb you . 
david koepp keeps the action localized ; the majority of the action takes place at tom's house or just down the street . 
by keeping things at home , koepp is able to proceed without having to resort to any clumsy segues ( montages of driving down roads as we move from one city to another etc . ) . 
unfortunately , the dread and spookiness of stir of echoes are frequently interrupted by moments of levity . 
humour can take the tension away from a scene faster than any shoddy special effect or poor acting . 
several tense moments become completely diffused by a few misplaced jokes . 
also , there are a couple of plot developments that are left unresolved , though to mention them would be to give too much away . 
kevin bacon handles the duel task of playing an everyman and a man losing his sanity admirably . 
his total lack of understanding of what is happening to him is believable , as are the reactions from his wife maggie . 
kathryn erbe is given a role meatier and better written than that of most " wife who can no longer handle her husband " parts . 
while it is still a supporting role , her maggie is moving as she watches both her husband and her son enter what she calls " a private club that i'm not invited to " , where they whisper about things all day long . 
as jake , zachary cope equals the performance of haley joel osment in the sixth sense , but gets less screen time . 
both children manage the same trick , making the audience creeped out by their apparent acceptance of the way things are . 
fans of blair and sixth sense will almost surely love stir of echoes . 
it combines the dread of blair , a creepy closed-in feel thanks to cinematographer fred murphy and great performances by the whole cast , specifically bacon , to give the fall its first genuine scary film . 
if only they had let up on the unneeded funny bits and tweaked the plot a bit more , this could have been one of the year's best . 
being the self-proclaimed professional film critic that i am , i am somewhat embarrassed to admit that i had not seen lawrence of arabia ( coming soon to dvd ) until only recently . 
after all , it's considered by just about everyone to be the masterpiece epic of director david lean , who also directed films such as bridge on the river kwai , and doctor zhivago . 
so one day , a friend of mine loaned me a copy of the video and i sat down and watched it . 
i was initially skeptical that something made almost 40 years ago would be able to keep my attention for the butt-numbing 3 1/2 hours of its duration . 
but now i fully understand why this has become the film that other epic films are judged against -- the winner of seven academy awards in 1963 for best picture , director , editing , cinematography , art direction , music , and sound . 
after watching the film again , i am convinced that it is simply one of the finest works of cinematic genius to ever illuminate the big screen . 
based on the autobiographical writing of british officer t . e . 
lawrence during world war i , lawrence of arabia depicts lawrence ( played by then-unknown actor peter o'toole ) as a lieutenant lacking any sort of military discipline whatsoever . 
bored with his assignment of coloring maps for the british army in a dimly lit headquarters building , lawrence jumps at the opportunity to be re-assigned as an observer for an arabian prince fighting against the turkish army . 
lawrence quickly sees just how caring and great these desert dwelling people can be and ends up rallying the various tribes together to fight the turks and help the british turn the tide of world war i . 
shot in panavision's famed super 70mm format , the film beautifully illustrates the definition of the word epic . 
it is absolutely breathtaking . 
using stunning cinematography , costuming , and direction , shot in the most uninhabitable location on the face of the earth , i can only imagine what it must have been like to sit in a theater in 1962 and watch this story unfold before my eyes . 
every shot is choreographed as a portrait -- a living tribute to a great land . 
david lean put his reputation on the line to get this film completed , and the fact that it was even greenlit in the first place says something about the ideology of the motion picture industry at the time , a far cry from its pathetic , uncreative existence today . 
after watching the film , the first thing that came to my mind was , " i've got to do a remake of this film ! " 
but then i thought about trying to pitch the idea to a modern-day movie executive : " okay , it's going to be almost four hours long and shot over three months on location in the sahara desert . 
we are going to need to blow up a full-size train because computer-generated effects probably wont do it justice . 
and we are not going to use any big stars , and won't have any female actors since there's no love story . " 
yes , my friends , the velvet curtain fell on the golden-era of hollywood a long time ago . 
but at least we still have the proof to show all would-be producers and directors out there just how good a film can be . 
my summer was recently saved by two very different movies . 
on opening night , i saw american pie 2 and laughed like a moron . 
then a few nights later , i watched and thoroughly enjoyed joel hershman's greenfingers even though it didn't feature a trip to band camp , girl-on-girl action , or seann william scott . 
however , i felt just as good leaving american pie 2 as i did after leaving greenfingers , which tells the offbeat tale of british murderer colin briggs ( clive owen of croupier ) . 
after spending roughly half of his life behind bars , he is transferred to a more lenient facility , edgefield . 
the picaresque , rustic prison allows its inmates to learn a trade , while enjoying accommodations generally found at most colleges . 
at first , briggs doesn't want to be there . 
he's used to living as a prisoner and wants to be left alone . 
however , his ailing roommate , fergus ( david kelly of waking ned devine ) , wears briggs down through his benign nature . 
the two become friends , with fergus giving colin a packet of violet seeds as a christmas gift . 
briggs is astonished when the violets grow in the limestone soil , and begins a fight with three other prisoners when an errant soccer ball smashes his beloved flowers . 
after the prison's governor ( warren clarke ) reprimands them , he's awed at what briggs has accomplished . 
and he's struck by an idea -- briggs , fergus and the other men will grow a garden on the prison's grounds . 
greenfingers , which is " inspired by actual events , " becomes a bit like a sports movie after that . 
despite their differences , the men come together and through hard work and love earn a spot at the big game -- in this case a prestigious garden show . 
one renegade , in this case , briggs , will prove to have talent . 
of course , love will also rear its head ( no , not " prison love " ) . 
to hershman's credit , he doesn't pump up the drama or try for cheap laughs , like last year's lame marijuana comedy saving grace . 
i had to keep pinching myself when i didn't see a single scene of a hardened con sneezing over a pot of pansies , or the men giving high-fives over a particularly stunning batch of wildflowers . 
the movie deals with people and scores on that concept . 
it's wonderful seeing briggs turn from a bitter prisoner to a man who cares again . 
give credit to owen for keeping his cool in a part that begs for overacting . 
his speech to the parole board about being reborn through gardening is the best scene of its kind since morgan freeman's last stand in the shawshank redemption . 
owen's bedside scenes with kelly , who lends the film a human touch , are a marvel to behold , emotionally gripping without being sappy . 
written by hershman , greenfingers contains plenty of laughs . 
most come courtesy of helen mirren , who shines as the world-class gardener who works with the inmates but fears for her daughter primrose ( natasha little ) when she starts dating briggs . 
the mother can't believe what he'll do if her daughter " burns the sunday roast . " 
nothing is forced in greenfingers . 
the funny lines come forth naturally in conversations and not from punch lines . 
primrose and briggs' relationship takes awkward steps . 
even when briggs decides to go back to edgefield , it's done for reasons of loyalty , not because the movie requires him to do so . 
after grimacing through the forced screwball antics of movies like america's sweethearts and the princess dairies , it's an almost indescribable pleasure to see a director taking his time to tell a story very well . 
so many students strive to get into schools such as harvard of princeton , but they just don't get the good grades . 
so many students would do anything to reach their goal of getting into this schools . 
legend has it that if your roommate commits suicide , the remaining roommates will get an automatic 4 . 0 . 
chris ( michael vartan ) and tim ( matthew lillard ) are two guys who really want the 4 . 0 to get into harvard . 
how far will they go to get their 4 . 0 ? 
chris and tim are also roommates with rand , played by randall batinkoff . 
the two scheme to murder rand , make it look like a suicide , so they can supposedly get their 4 . 0 . 
they have heard this rumor many places , and they are willing to take the chance to find out . 
rand is a very , very mean person . 
he treats his girlfriend natalie , played by tamara craig thomas , like she doesn't matter at all . 
she is very afraid of him , and she especially afraid now that she must tell him she is pregnant . 
she does tell him , and he becomes enraged . 
that night would be the last night of rand's life . 
tim and chris give rand a bottle of rat poison , making him think that it is beer . 
rand drinks down the poison , and then dies . 
now , tim pushes him off of a mountain with a suicide note near the site to make it look like he killed himself . 
it does not take long until the suicide note is found , but the body isn't found . 
the police question chris and tim about rand to try and find any information . 
feeling extreme guilt , chris is having a very hard time , especially with his girlfriend , emma , played by keri russell . 
she wants to know more , but he will not even speak with her . 
will he give in ? 
will tim turn chris in ? 
will chris turn tim in ? 
will they turn themselves in ? 
all of these questions were running through my mind while watching this slick suspense film . 
the events in the curve are very surprising , original , and fun . 
the plot sounds much like dead man on campus , but that is not the deal with this film . 
this film is a very serious one , with not many laughs . 
there are many twists and turns that make this film different from most films . 
the ending in particular is completely unpredictable and satisfying . 
it is a terrific , suspenseful ending that i could never predict would happen . 
hands down to dan rosen who wrote this wild ride . 
the sound really stood out in the film . 
it is quite eerie and it really adds to the feel of the film . 
the way the movie is filmed is also great . 
all of the technical aspects , as well as the acting and directing aspects are very well done . 
the performances in the curve are very good . 
matthew lillard gets to play another creepy role , just like in 1996's scream . 
 ( a+ ) he is very strange in this film as well . 
i like him in this sort of role , rather than the roles he has been playing in comedies such as senseless and she's all that . 
michael vartan is fantastic as chris , who has extremely mixed emotions about the entire murder and the 4 . 0 . 
michael vartan was also superb in never been kissed , where he co-starred with drew barrymore as a teacher who fell in love with his student . 
keri russell also gives a great performance . 
she should be a good actress in the horror department of the film . 
tamara craig thomas is also realistic , especially coping with the death of her boyfriend . 
some very strong supporting performances came from smaller roles , such as bo dietl and anthony griffith who play two detectives investigating the case . 
the bottom line- i might just have to curve that a- into an a . 
 * note- the curve premiered at the sundance film festival in early 1998 . 
it was decided the film would not be released widely . 
it is now available at blockbuster video only , and for rent only . 
see you at the video store ! 
available for rental - october 12 , 1999 
10 things i hate about you is an update of the classic play , the taming of the shrew . 
that said , drop any pre-conceived notions of what shakespeare's work is supposed to be like and welcome yourself to padua high school , home of a student counselor ( allison janney ) who obsesses over the male penis ; a slightly too hip and racist african-american english teacher ( daryl mitchell ) ; a new kid named cameron ( joseph gordon-levitt ) ; a model named joey ( andrew keegan ) , the subject of cameron and joey's crushes ; bianca ( larisa oleynik ) ; and bianca's sister - the shrew ( julia stiles in a marvelous performance ) - whose name is katarina , kat for short . 
with movies about high schools similar to these running through projectors like water down the nile , it would be quite easy to write off 10 things i hate about you as just another doltish comedic-romance . 
yet , you must realize that the story is timeless , and a few hundred years later it is equally as witty and comical as when elizabeth gleefully looked on , groundlings below and stuffed brassieres on stage . 
the first reminder of the original scribe can be found in katarina and bianca's last name : stratford . 
their family is run by walter stratford ( pretty woman's larry miller ) , a doctor who is all too familiar with teenage pregnancy and guards his children accordingly . 
in what he thinks to be a moment of ironic humor , the family " no dating " policy is amended to " bianca can date . . . when 
[katarina] does . " 
with prom just ahead , bianca's fate is grim ; unless , of course , she can tame the shrew . 
don't think this mission to be a simple one , as bianca kindly points out , her sister " . . . is a particularly hideous breed of loser . " 
getting katarina to date is complex and oftentimes confusing . 
when cameron , who likes bianca , learns of her father's new rule , he is quick to consult a friend for advice . 
the scheme they dream up is to fully exploit " someone with money . " 
in this case , that is joey - the other guy with a crush on bianca . 
cameron's friend , a loser by teenage verdict , convinces joey to pay someone who has enough guts to take the shrew out . 
the solution lies no farther away than the second blatant reminder of the master scribe : patrick verona ( heath ledger ) . 
this verona is far from fair ; rumor has it that he previously laid his scene in prison . 
moreover , katarina openly opined to the aforementioned english teacher that " hemingway was an alcoholic who hung around picasso , hoping to nail his leftovers . " 
the laws of high school cinema inexorably turn patrick and katarina into romeo and juliet . 
providing a constant reminder of the fact that this isn't exactly what shakespeare had in mind are the elements obligatory to a high school comedy : a party polluted with liquor , a best friend's betrayal , and prom . 
it is the latter that has become infamous for closing films like drive me crazy , american pie , never been kissed , carrie , she's all that , and can't hardly wait . 
yet surely even these practices have roots in shakespeare ; falstaff was a drunk , romeo and juliet met at a party , and caesar learned about loyalty the hard way . 
my filmcritic . com 
colleague norm schrager nailed session 9 , brad anderson's throwback to spooky horror films from the 70's . 
it worked as an eerie homage without being self-referential or smugly postmodern . 
genre aficionados will acknowledge the similarities in tone to stanley kubrick's the shining and george romero's dawn of the dead without being taken out of the engrossing narrative ( i . e . , a psychologically addled waste management team clears out an abandoned lunatic asylum ; unspeakable dread ensues ) . 
in a double-whammy for 2001 , anderson shoots and ( mostly ) scores again with his eclectic riff on time-travel episodes from the twilight zone , appropriately titled happy accidents . 
much like session 9 , the cards are played very close to the vest here . 
is boyish , eccentric " sam deed from dubuque , iowa " a futuristic voyager from the year 2470 or just your run-of-the-mill psychologically disturbed nutcase let loose on the present-day streets of nyc ? 
as played by wonderful character actor vincent d'onofrio ( full metal jacket ) , it's up in the air whether or not we should accept his detailed monologues about life after the polar ice caps have melted . 
the question proves to be moot , at least for a time . 
even if the whole thing proves to be a creative delusion , one agrees with the character judgment passed down on him by his new girlfriend , ruby ( marisa tomei ) : " he's a freak , but he sure tells a good story ! " 
neurotic ruby thinks she may have found true love after a series of nightmarish dating disasters ( the junkie , the fetishist , the artist , the frenchman , etc . ) , but isn't quite sure how to handle " sam deed " when he starts explaining the barcode on his arm , his elaborately constructed fake identity , his pathological fear of dogs , his ability to speak five different languages , and his mission to change a crucial moment in time that may have ramifications on time's alternate realities . 
 ( don't ask . ) 
it's all a bit much to take in . 
ruby's close friend gretchen ( cuz ya can't have a love story without the token friend , though nadia dajani invests the thankless role with warmth ) chalks it up as a sexy role-playing game , but her cautious therapist ( holland taylor ) warns her that co-dependency is rearing its ugly head again and she's in over her head with yet another doomed relationship . 
who ya gonna believe ? 
despite her winning an academy award , marisa tomei has always struck me as an annoying and unwelcome screen presence , one that undermines the pleasure of watching happy accidents . 
her brassy new yawk attitude never really meshes with her desperate desire to appear " cute " to her adoring fans . 
being loud and flashing a ( disingenuous ) smile does not necessarily equal " substantial and sexy . " 
it takes more than a crack team of hair and wardrobe people to imbue her with personality . 
then there's that damned voice , which strains to be oh-so-adorable . 
look , this stuff is purely subjective . 
some people feel this way about richard gere , others cannot bear to watch robin williams' hyperactive schtick . 
for my money , it's m . tomei with a bullet . 
happy accidents is a romantic comedy filtered through twelve monkeys ( or , more appropriately , chris marker's la jetee , especially with those still framed " memory " photographs anderson employs as a stylistic device throughout ) . 
modern manhattan is filmed with an otherworldly , vaguely alien eye with a color scheme oddly reminiscent of logan's run . 
as the stranger in a strange land , d'onofrio walks slightly out-of-step , wonderfully affable but often inscrutable with his wayward expressions and bemused detachment . 
this is science fiction told mainly via the power of suggestion ( though it often falls into the sci-fi trap of having entirely too much forced exposition -- we want deeds , not words ! ) 
at least twenty minutes too long , happy accidents eventually gets around to a race-against-time scenario that puts " sam deed " to the ultimate test . 
no movie can live in ambiguity forever , but anderson seems terminally unable to provide satisfactory conclusions to his otherwise well structured recent narratives . 
 ( let's pretend the loathsome and predictable next stop wonderland never happened , shall we ? ) 
there are also some slow , repetitive stretches as ruby and sam go over the same arguments again and again over whether or not he's crazy . 
the premise is strong enough to sustain interest , but it's enough to throw a nod in the general direction of rod serling for wrapping up his ideas in half-hour time slots , commercials included . 
what i look for in a movie is not necessarily perfection . 
sometimes a movie has such strong ideas that despite whatever flaws it may have , i will prefer it to a better-made film that is not as thought-provoking . 
the thin red line is flawed but it provokes . 
terence malick returns to filmmaking 20 years after days of heaven and produces this meditative look at war . 
unlike this year's saving private ryan , which dwells on war as a necessary evil and explores the moral ambiguities thereof , the thin red line simply says war is waste . 
while that might seem obvious to some , only after experiencing the film do you realize how profound a waste it is . 
saving private ryan has an underlying and practical acceptance that war will occur and it has a great cost ; the thin red line says idealistically avoid this at all costs . 
one message is not necessarily more correct than the other . 
it just depends on one's point of view . 
in malick's film , war is set in a tropical paradise , and john toll's cinematography is beyond lush . 
the setting poses the question , why are we fighting in the face of such beauty ? 
in saving private ryan , the capture of a german soldier presents the moral quandary of whether to let him go . 
in the thin red line , the japanese present the moral quandary of war in the first place . 
they are just like the americans -- frightened and angry , grieving and praying . 
all that separates them is war . 
the flaw in the thin red line comes in the voice-overs . 
unbelievable as coming from the characters and sometimes pretentious , sometimes corny , the voice-overs tell us what the images before us already do and are completely unnecessary . 
dispensing with them , malick could have achieved a tarkovskian grandeur . 
instead , he gets distracting self-consciousness . 
aside from that , malick's direction is stunning . 
the tracking shots across windswept hills and around transports speeding toward shore are extraordinary . 
sean penn , elias koteas , and nick nolte give the best performances . 
penn is subtle as a sergeant trying to hide his humanism , koteas is genuine as a compassionate captain , and nolte startling as a colonel whose blood vessels are about to burst if he cannot win his battle . 
john travolta and george clooney are the worst in cameo roles . 
ultimately however , the thin red line's interest is not in the characters and it is not in drama . 
it has been frequently criticized for its lack of dramatic structure , but malick clearly has different things on his mind . 
has no one ever thought that getting dramatic entertainment from war is exploitative ? 
what malick is working with is theme , and in that , the thin red line is most provoking . 
mike myers , you certainly did throw us a ? frickin' bone here in what you call ? the biggest austin powers adventure yet . ' 
austin powers : the spy who shagged me is the sequel to the 1997 smash comedy austin powers : international man of mystery . 
many are skeptical about sequels , saying that the sequel is never better or as good as the original , but austin powers : tswsm goes beyond the first film . 
austin powers : the spy who shagged me stars mike myers in three different roles . 
he reprises his role as the title character , austin powers , the shagadelic spy whose body was frozen in 1967 , and unfrozen in 1997 to stop his long time nemesis dr . evil , also played by mike myers , from destroying the earth . 
tswsm leaves off where the original stopped , with dr . evil's ? frisch's big boy' space capsule floating through space . 
dr . evil returns back to earth by ejecting from his capsule , plotting to go back in his time machine to the year 1967 , in which he plans to steal austin powers' " mojo " , what keeps austin going with spy talents . 
upon his return to his secret lair , which is now a starbucks coffee shop , dr . evil learns that his evil henchman , which includes the returning robert wagner as number 2 and mindy sterling as frau , have created a 1/8 size clone of dr . evil , which is later named mini me . 
the evil mini me replaces scott evil , played by seth green , as dr . evil's son in the madman's mind , because dr . evil thinks of scott to be only " quasi-evil . " 
dr . evil has always wanted a son that is evil just like him , and now he has one . 
dr . evil tells mini me , " you complete me , " in a loving manner . 
dr . evil loving ? 
wow ! 
mike myers' third role is as fat bastard , a scottish henchman of dr . evil's , who is sent to steal the mojo from austin powers' frozen body . 
austin powers learns of dr . evil's trip back into the 60s , and uses his own time machine to take him back to 1967 , to try to save his mojo before fat bastard gets a hold of it . 
once arriving in the year 1967 , austin travels to his " pad " , his smashing home/dance club , where he meets felicity shagwell , played by heather graham , a cia agent who is willing to help him in his journey to stop dr . evil . 
as the film progresses , hilarious one liners are thrown at us , mainly by dr . evil , for example , " don't go there , girlfriend ! " 
to the president of the united states . 
many witty gags take place , note the entire tent scene , and just plain , funny scenes which are so stupid- they're funny come a dozen per fifteen minutes . 
take for example , scott evil going on the jerry springer show complaining about how evil his father is . 
the way austin powers : tswsm uses its humor is clever , throwing a hilarious scene at you , followed by five minutes of one liners , followed by another outrageous scene , so you never stop laughing . 
there was honestly not one moment in austin powers : tswsm where i wasn't laughing . 
the last film that i laughed so hard in , was well , austin powers ! 
it is apparent that mike myers knew how funny this film was while writing it . 
the film even makes fun of itself in a line , something along the lines of , " it's funny how england and southern california look nothing alike . " 
tswsm was filmed in southern california , but was supposed to take place in england . 
i can tell you one thing- he is having a lot of fun with this enormously popular character , which is all over television , newspapers , magazines , and the movie theaters . 
i believe that dr . evil got more attention in the tswsm than austin powers did . 
dr . evil provided more laughs , more memorable moments , and more interesting dialogue than austin did this time around , who seems to missing the funny touch that he had in the first film . 
i felt that austin really did have his mojo taken away , but from screenplay writer mike myers , not fat bastard . 
also making a great addition to the series is mini me , who is played by verne troyer . 
even though the midget actor is 30 years old , he is adorable by dr . evil's side constantly . 
the first austin powers film had barely any sentimental quality , such as lack of character development , barely any detailed plot characteristics , and barely any good acting , but austin powers tswsm actually shows some quality behind the frequent humor . 
mike myers , with his three roles , acts as eddie murphy did in the nutty professor , disguising himself completely in one of the roles . 
 ( fat bastard ) all three characters are different , and mike myers does do a good job handling each one of them . 
heather graham made a great addition with her talent to tswsm , and does a much better job than elizabeth hurley did , who gave a very flat performance in the original , speaking her lines without any feeling or emotion . 
speaking of hurley , she can be seen in tswsm for a few brief moments . 
hopefully , graham tags along for future austin powers adventures . 
the bottom line- a groovy sequel that mike myers put all of his mojo into writing . 
it is with hesitance that i call " apocalypse now " a masterpiece . 
certainly , it had the pedigree to be one of the greatest films ever made , with a director known for producing masterpieces with ease , and some of the finest actors of the 1970's . 
the plot , an adaptation of joseph conrad's " heart of darkness " , was set in vietnam , and the timing of the film was supposed to be brilliant , coming on the heels of the end of the war . 
 " apocalypse " certainly has its moments , some of which are the finest in film history . 
the plot is fairly simple . 
captain willard ( sheen ) , is a troubled soldier who came back to hanoi for a 2nd tour of duty . 
his mission is simple : take a boat up to cambodian territory , and destroy the command of renegade colonel kurtz ( brando ) " with extreme prejudice " . 
along the way , willard runs into a series of adventures , including one with lt . col . kilgore ( duvall ) , and a strange encounter with playboy bunnies . 
willard' s four person crew finally make it to kurtz' compound , where he discovers kurtz has set himself up as a god among the natives . 
willard's experiences with kurtz take up the last half-hour , with a confrontation and eventual ending . 
the movie is visually breathtaking . 
the battle scenes are exquisitely done , and the score is brilliant , setting a murky mood of darkness that is first-rate . 
the collage of disturbing images that coppola presents is at times both astonishing and sickening . 
the vast amount of detail poured into every war scene is stunning , and there are many episodes that are deeply powerful which resonate through the entire movie . 
the journey to kurtz' camp is quite a ride , with psychosis setting in on almost every character . 
the most interesting one is kilgore , the lt . col . who cares more about the surf than about the mission . 
it is at times revolting , psychotic , and incredible , and it is one hell of a movie . 
the scenes are bold , inventive , and powerful , and the acting is stunning , especially be sheen , duvall , and fishburne . 
the narration is exquisite , as is the mystery of kurtz . 
coppola sets about a hallucinatory ride through vietnam , kind of like " saving private ryan " on lsd . 
the film is jarring in its implications , and psychotic in its execution . 
the problems come when the film slows down . 
one of the major scenes in the film , where the boat arrives at the final army checkpoint before they start their search for kurtz , is a colossal mess . 
the dialogue is confusing , the lighting is atrocious , and the scene drags on for 10 terrible minutes of film . 
the true problems happen after the crew does come into the kurtz compound . 
the film slows down to a drag . 
sheen seems forever captured by a madman , played by brando is a lazy performance that is not deserving of the accolades it received . 
brando is in the film for no more than 15 minutes , but is bathed in shadows the entire time , making the last half hour of the film visually pathetic . 
the scenes are poorly done , the dialogue is muffled , and the whole mess is utterly confusing beyond all belief . 
sheen seems to adore this man , but why the viewers are never told . 
the entire journey is supposed to be a prelude for a stunning entrance of this god-like kurtz , but the scenes fall way short of expectations . 
granted , it has its moments , which are brutally horrific , but the general feeling is one of confusion . 
brando mumbles his lines in a incoherent stir , and my feeling was that this could never be a great man , this could never be a man who inspires hundreds to follow him , so why do they do it ? 
there are moments of brilliance , but the visual confusion dilutes the power of the scene . 
there are too many questions left unanswered with the character of kurtz to have a satisfying ending . 
the finest scene at the end is sheen's escape , and his entrace into the temple . 
his rise out of the water , with the smoke coming off of his slicked head , is a brilliant 30 seconds of film . 
yet , you cannot shake the feeling that there is so much more this film could have done . 
the psychotic ride is unforgettable at times , and indeed the film on the whole is very good . 
it is a stunningly flawed expression of film , for it addresses major issues , such as man's mental stamina during bouts of war . 
but one still cannot shake the feeling that this film could have so much more powerful , had the character of kurtz been more explored , and had sheen truly succumbed to the fate that the viewer thought he was destined for . 
there is too much good material in here not to be called a masterpiece , but it could have been so much more rewarding . 
the verdict : spine-chilling drama from horror maestro stephen king , featuring an outstanding , oscar-winning performance from kathy bates . 
geez , french and saunders had a field day when they set to work on parodying this ! 
sorry , non-british readers may not be familiar with french and saunders - my apologies . 
the pair are british comediennes ( jennifer saunders later went on to become edina monsoon in " absolutely fabulous " ) , who did a series of film spoofs a few years back , including alien , the exorcist and misery . 
needless to say , amidst her chucklesome impersonation of kathy bates ( the resemblance was quite uncanny ! ) , dawn french got pretty nasty with her sledgehammer when in reach of jennifer saunder's legs ! 
but despite the lingering memory of their sketch , and although i've now seen the film a couple of times now , that " hobbling " scene was no less disturbing ! 
i'm still left screaming at the telly in revulsion ! 
that may be the most memorable scene , but it's certainly not the only worth watching . 
stephen king , whose film and tv adaptations tend to vary in quality , strikes gold with this simple yet strikingly compelling tale . 
it's a nicely crafted psychological horror , which effortlessly succeeds in drawing you into the plight of writer phil sheldon ( james caan ) . 
rescued from a car accident by annie wilkes ( bates ) , who introduces herself as the writer's " number one fan " , he soon becomes her prisoner . 
both the script and kathy bates' beautifully masterful performance ( for which she won an oscar ) work arm-in-arm as we quickly begin to realise that beyond her bubbly exterior the woman is basically as nutty as a fruit-cake ( or is that fruity as a nut-cake ? ) . 
bates relishes her demanding role , and her performance is nothing short of a masterpiece . 
at times she seems like an innocent victim of her own obsessive behaviour , at times she's a rather tragic character , and more often than not she's just damned scary ! 
this is basically a very simple tale , but it achieves a large degree of eloquence in its simplicity . 
it's an involving , engrossing experience - and considering it's basically a two-hander , mainly set in one locale , it's a remarkable piece of cinema . 
there are no jazzy special effects or cheesy action sequences - this one relies solely upon rob reiner's stylish directing and the wonderful performances of bates and caan . 
oh , i haven't really mentioned caan yet - he does a good job as the writer who's a prisoner of his own success ( annie is obsessed with him and his books ) . 
but , as you no doubt gathered from the above - bates is well and truly the star of the show . 
along with the pig , of course ! 
anyway , the tension is built-up with masterful aplomb , and some scenes are almost agonisingly tense . 
there's the dinner scene where seldon goes to nerve-shattering lengths to poison her wine . 
he succeeds , but . . . she 
knocks the glass over ! 
i bet you threw a pillow at the screen as well ! 
in the immortal words of homer j . simpson - " d'oh ! ! " 
other nerve-wracking scenes include the bit where annie has gone off to town and sheldon starts snooping around the house . 
we cut to annie in her car - she's on her way home . . . he 
realises this and tries to get back to his room . . . cut 
to the car again , she's getting near . . . will he make it ? 
ok , so these sequences aren't exactly original , nor perhaps unpredictable - but they work ! 
boy , do they work ! 
if a film has you on the edge of your couch , biting your nails and shouting at the screen in suspense , then it's doing something right ! 
of course , the most nauseating sequence is the aforementioned " hobbling " ! 
annie realises her captive has been out of his room , and she's going to stop him once and for all . 
cue a block of wood placed strategically between his ankles and a huge sledgehammer , and . . . i feel ill just thinking about it ! 
nasty . 
it all builds up nicely to the final scene where sheldon finally gets the upper hand , and once and for all tries to kill the crazy psycho ! 
and then we're given one of the most ridiculously over-the-top fight scenes i've ever seen . 
she gets hit over the head with a typewriter , set on fire , head smashed against the wall - and she just won't die ! 
sheldon isn't in terribly good shape either . 
if it weren't so gorey it would almost be laughable . 
but it's a terrifically effective film , and therefore the daft climax is easily overlooked . 
misery is a tight , tense , intense and chillingly entertaining thriller . 
the directing is first-rate , and the performances - bates in particular - contribute to making this a suitably nightmarish little gem . 
wonderful stuff . 
 ? - * - * - * - * - * - * - * - * - for more regularly-updated film and tv reviews , check out my site ! 
http : //www . geocities . com/hollywood/bungalow/4960 
- * - * - * - * - * - * - * - * - 
an indian runner was more than a courier . 
he * became * the message he was carrying . 
what danger is a bear , to a message ? 
i used to think sean penn was an immature , arrogant , photographer- punching , madonna-marrying , loudmouth . 
but all that has changed now . 
the guy has grown up . 
and that's not all . 
it seems that sean penn has talents both as a writer and a director , if this film is any indication . 
one might imagine a movie with plenty of ruthless rage and showy machismo , given penn in charge of bronson and and hopper . 
but , no . 
this film is about a real struggle , and the victories and defeats are not simple . 
penn lets the story unfold at a pace dictated by the lives of the characters , without unnecessary rush or flash . 
the focus of the story is two brothers . 
david morse is the brother who has grown up in the small midwestern town in which they were raised , tending a failing farm and finally becoming a police officer . 
viggo mortensen is the wild brother , whose wild behavior seems to be a reaction to some ancient pain that he can't name , much less resolve . 
the film picks the story up on the day when mortensen returns from vietnam , and morse coincidentally encounters an armed youth fleeing for the state line . 
it becomes clear that some kind of conflict threatens the link that the brothers once shared . 
the film is unobtrusive , simple , direct , plain , and sincere . 
it isn't exactly perfect , but its sincerity is well invested in the struggle of the two brothers to identify the sickness before it destroys them . 
life seems to move forward a little faster than they can get a handle on their problems . 
this is a good film without big budget sets , or big name stars pushed into your face . 
in fact , i'm reviewing it because i suspect that it may not get much marketing . 
there were perhaps 10 others at the showing i saw . 
i thought the structure was clean and not oversimplified , though there are a few free-form sections which also work very well . 
the obligatory 1960s music seemed a little cliche , but what are you going to do--this movie * does * take place in the 1960s after all . 
in my opinion , it is worth full-price admission . 
seen july 8 , 1998 at the crossgates cinema 18 , ( albany , ny ) , theater #7 , at 8 : 15 p . m . with my mom using hoyts cinema cash . 
[theater rating : * * * 1/2 : very good sound , picture , and seats] 
it's very rare that any medium of entertainment can give one an authentic , vivid sense of reality and life . 
all stories are about select moments of time and places in the characters' lives , but only the truly great ones are able to define their realities well enough so the audience can experience it just as the characters do . 
therefore , " gone with the wind " deserves accolades for its ability to tell the epic story it does , in such a crafted , intricate , and entertaining manner . 
it's a crowning achievement , not only in filmmaking , but for storytelling itself . 
the film takes place in georgia before , during , and after the civil war . 
this plays a major factor in the film's success . 
to use such a historic setting presents many possibilities and problems since no one was alive at the time to verify its accuracy . 
it might also seem cliche , boring and other such deterent factors to potential viewers . 
can a story set so long ago be relatable now ? 
the film confronts all these problems , paradoxically , by not cronfronting them . 
it doesn't simply plug in the " right thing " at the " right time , " it creates an entire reality where everything makes sense and said concerns are irrelevant . 
building a strong foundation is important to all forms of media , without which , what is there to build on ? 
we're given some backstory here and learn a little about our characters , especially our main character , scarlett o'hara ( leigh ) , a beautiful southern belle with a will of steel , a cunning wit , and a tremendous sense of liberty in such an oppressive time . 
she knows how her society works , wherein everything she does can and will play a role in the shaping of her life and those around her . 
right from the beginning we realize how determined she is to have her way no matter what the consequences may be . 
being the most sought-after woman allows her to manipulate men ( and their women ) to ensure she gets her way , whether it be obvious ( i . e . 
who will be the one to get her food ) , or subtle ( i . e . 
getting married just to spite someone ) . 
the man she claims to love is ashley wilkes ( howard ) , a modest gentleman who does not seem to have the same passion for her as she does for him . 
he isn't so arrogant and demanding as scarlett , in fact , he's engaged to a woman with a personality much more like his . 
her name is melanie ( de havilland ) , and she is one of the sweetest , kindest , and most likable characters one will ever see . 
she and scarlett become very dear friends , but she never suspects the jealously scarlett has for her , and the love she has for her husband . 
her meekness is both her strongest and weakest characteristic - it defines who she is , but doesn't give her much emotional self-defense . 
acting a catalyst to the love triangle , and to the story as a whole is the daper , stong-willed , cunning , cocky southern business and military man captain rhett butler ( gable ) . 
he's quite a character all right - everyone listens to what he has to say even though he's got a bad reputation . 
butler makes no apologies for his vast amount of money nor his behavior . 
he tells everyone the much-needed truth in the rigid caste-like society where freewill doesn't seem to exist , everything is done out of honor and tradition . 
for example , in his first appearance butler tells his fellow southerners there's no way the south could defeat the north if war were to break out . 
this angers them , not for his lack of faith , but because he has the gall to say it aloud and boastfully at that . 
 " do we have ammunition factories ? 
do we have food ? 
do we have a navy ? 
all we have is tobacco . " 
all true statements and yet the south still insists he's wrong . 
butler is a shifty character to be sure , but he takes such pride in his arrogance it's appealing . 
scarlett notices this too when she first sees him , and from the look butler gives her , we know he's not going to stop until he has her . 
but scarlett can't get past her need for ashley , and during a scene which sets the stage for the grand story , butler learns of this and continues to throw it back at scarlett forever . 
and so the story goes on , with scarlett being thrown obstacle after obstacle in her life . 
the conflicts she must overcome range from taking care of her entire family to finding a proper husband , especially after she is " marked " for life when her first husband dies . 
this gives the film many opportunities to bring in more characters into the epic story . 
some are vital for only a few scenes , but their true signifcance will endure throughout the film . 
in most films only a few characters exist for support in background , but this film is more realistic and believable as it incorporates a supporting cast the size of a small town and everyone has signficance . 
even people in the background seem more than just extras wandering the set . 
the costuming design is outstanding so that the film makes for a real sense of time and place . 
the filmmakers could have easily set more scenes indoors and narrowly focused to avoid having to show the outside , real world , but these types of simple approaches are never taken . 
the first half of the film depicts the traumatic experience the south faced at the last days of the civil war . 
fleming is able to convey the horror of it all by painting an image of destruction and letting the viewer decide just how bad it is . 
one scene has scarlett working as a nurse at a military hospital while we hear a soldier in the background screaming , " no ! 
not my leg ! 
don't cut off my leg ! " 
another scene shows her simplying trying to cross a street , but as the camera pulls back , we see that her path is blocked by hundreds of wounded soldiers , but it is their moaning that's more graphic than all the bloody gore could ever be . 
as the second half begins , the film concentrates more on scarlett as a completely independent woman who single-handedly takes care of her family and melanie just to spite the tyrany of the north . 
she manages to resurrect the family plantation , but all the willpower she has can't help her when she must pay exuberhant taxes set by the north after the south's ultimate defeat . 
this brings rhett butler back into the picture and thus begins their torrid love- hate relationship . 
most of the second half of the film is somehow related to the relationship ( or lack thereof ) between rhett and scarlett . 
each uses the other for personal gain , but at the same time they still feel an intimate connection with each other . 
scarlett continues to use her manipulative powers over men to get what she wants and because rhett can't help but want her more every time she tries to one-up him such as marrying another man and taking over his business . 
they say opposites attract , but the conflict between rhett and scarlett goes way beyond opposing personalities , it borders on magnetic polarization . 
they need each other and know this , yet they never seem truly happy together . 
perhaps they mistake love for passion , and the film leaves it up to us to make this call . 
both have things the other wants and vice versa , but when they compromise , is it just to get their own way or because they actually care for each other . 
love and the perception of love are two completely separate things and throughout the final act of the film , we're left wondering if rhett and scarlett ever truly loved each other and why . 
gable and leigh do have great chemistry , always leaving the viewer wondering which emotions were authentic and which were manufacture . 
all ? 
none ? 
either way is possible and it's a mystery that cannot be solved even upon repeated viewings . 
it's safe to say most of us won't live such overly dramatic lives as those in " gone with the wind , " but it's still a masterpiece for its ability to give us a sense that we've just experienced a life's worth of joy and pain . 
not since attending an ingmar bergman retrospective a few years ago have i seen a film as uncompromising in its portrayal of emotional truth as secrets & lies . 
like bergman , director mike leigh is interested in probing his characters' inner depths through hypernaturally blunt confrontations . 
also like bergman , leigh engages in frequent closeups of his characters' ravished and wracked faces . 
and the prominent mournfulness of a cello on the soundtrack recalls bergman's own use of a bach cello suite in an earlier film . 
all that is missing is a discussion of god . 
which is not to say that secrets & lies is nothing more than an homage to the swedish master . 
in fact , it is quite possible leigh had no such intentions in mind . 
nonetheless , what we get is so far removed from the average moviegoing experience -- even from the reason we go to the movies in the first place -- that it takes some effort to adjust to the film's rhythms . 
once the adjustment is made , however , there are great rewards . 
one such is the chance to see life on the screen as it really is . 
though leigh may have adopted some of bergman's stylistic touches , most obviously in an early scene of terse cross-cutting during a married couple's strained conversation , as well as in that somewhat obtrusive score , the overall feeling of the film is that it eschews any " style " at all . 
whereas bergman uses artifice as a tool to expose reality , leigh makes the camera a mere observer , almost as in a pbs documentary . 
the effect of this is to focus all of your attention on the actors . 
it is a tribute to everyone involved that , despite such scrutiny , only infrequently are we aware that anyone * is * acting . 
much has been made of brenda blethyn's performance , and rightly so , but it is only when you remind yourself that you are watching a fiction that you realize how good she is . 
there are a few missteps . 
for one , except for one scene ( tragicomic , as it happens ) , there is scant humor in the film . 
this leads to a certain monotonous tone throughout . 
and occasionally ( as with bergman ) the bluntness of the situations can seem forced . 
for all that , this longish film manages to keep hold of your attention . 
it is unfortunate that the audience for secrets & lies will most likely be limited to an intellectual elite , for there is nothing inherently intellectual about this film . 
in fact , it might easily resonate more strongly for millions of working class filmgoers who will likely never see it . 
there is even a sweet but significant irony in the film's unspoken take on race relations , something an american audience at least would do well to observe . 
nonetheless , secrets & lies is not for the faint of heart . 
though there is nothing physically horrific to make one squeamish , the exploration of common human frailty can be so raw and unsparing that it is tempting to turn from the screen . 
needless to say , it is also very depressing at times . 
but for many of us , of course , so is life . 
and though the film is too honest to tack on a phony happy ending , that same honesty allows it to admit that things can also get better . 
after a successful run in australia last year , and with much critical praise heaped upon it , muriel's wedding opens into medium release this weekend in north america . 
muriel heslop is a withdrawn , overweight young woman living in porpoise spit , australia . 
she is often the target of her father's frequent rants at the family , and drowns out her feelings of inadequacy with abba music and fantasies of marriage . 
her self-loathing is such that only being wed shall she prove herself to be a success ; marriage will transform her into a new person who is respected and admired . 
after her four cliquey friends dump her , muriel plots to follow them to a resort where they are celebrating the honeymoon of one of the girls , and muriel's wedding unfolds from there . 
toni collette plays muriel in a winning performance , conveying both the sadness of her character and her desperate eagerness to be accepted . 
collette gained a frightening 43 pounds in order to play the chubby title character . 
she has a natural screen presence and exudes charisma , easily winning the audience over with an honest , painful performance . 
collette basically carries the film , appearing in almost every scene . 
muriel's father , bill " the battler " heslop , is portrayed by bill hunter as a slick politician/developer . 
while chumming around with young fans and crowing 'you can't beat progress' ( his slogan ) , bill labels his family as worthless and embarrassments . 
rachel griffiths plays rhonda , who becomes muriel's cheeky new friend in the film . 
she has good chemistry with collette , and the film suffers when griffiths is off-screen . 
muriel's tormenters , played by pippa grandison , rosalind hammond , belinda jarrett and sophie lee , are two-dimensional caricatures , all saucy , vain and bumblingly spiteful , though that is probably due to hogan's scripting 
muriel's wedding is essentially a genre teen comedy with more intelligence and a lot of charm . 
hogan's use of abba tunes ( which virtually comprises the entire soundtrack ) is interestingly appropriate , although its repetitiveness tires after awhile . 
hogan's script is right on the mark in terms of proportionately mixing comedy with muriel's earnest quest for acceptance , and the gorgeous scene with muriel window-shopping beautifully illustrates the wonder that marriage has for her . 
the glaring pastel colours worn by the performers is an interesting touch . 
muriel's wedding features a fine performance by toni collette and a charming , if a bit too straightforward and conventional story by p . j . hogan . 
on my four star scale , i give muriel's wedding three stars . 
every once in a while , a film sneaks up on me and takes me completely by surprise . 
i don't necessarily mean in terms of quality ; rather , i'm referring to the mere knowledge of its existence . 
usually i know what films are on the way a year in advance , but two weeks ago i had never heard of princess caraboo . 
it has slipped rather quietly into limited release , and appears destined to slip out just as quietly . 
that's a shame , because princess caraboo is a delightful fable , romantic , gentle and very appealing . 
what's more , it's surprisingly insightful and provides a sharp-witted lesson in english social history . 
princess caraboo is based on an actual event in early 19th century england , involving a young woman ( phoebe cates ) who is found wandering the countryside . 
apparently unable to speak any english , she is taken in by good-hearted gentlewoman mrs . worrall ( wendy hughes ) . 
her banker husband ( jim broadbent ) is none-too-pleased about this strange houseguest , until the worralls begin to believe that the woman may be royalty from an east indian island , the princess caraboo . 
this development inspires plans for a lucrative trading venture for mr . worrall , and an introduction into elite social circles for mrs . worrall . 
however , local journalist john gutch ( stephen rea ) is not convinced that the woman is what she seems to be , and sets out to find out the truth about princess caraboo . 
as a social satire and comedy of manners , princess caraboo is a winner . 
it takes place in an era when it was common practice in england to jail vagrants and hang beggars , and that practice comes in for an obvious hazing . 
but it is handled most effectively through the character of mr . worrall , a drunken womanizer whose bank is in deep trouble thanks to his corruption and ineptitude . 
he is worse than one of the idle rich ; he is one of the actively odious gentry so eager to distance themselves from the lower class they think nothing of simply eliminating them , and since the house and money are all from mrs . worrall , he is a bit too close to them for comfort . 
while hypocrisy is an easy target for ridicule , director and co-writer michael austin keeps the treatment too light-hearted to be heavy-handed . 
he also takes a unique stab at the trendiness of the upper classes , as the princess becomes a " sensation " at court . 
in one of the film's best sequences , princess caraboo is the guest of honor at a party hosted by the prince regent ( a wonderfully foppish turn by comic john sessions ) , and the lords and ladies end up following her around in a thoroughly silly native dance . 
it is then that princess caraboo shows how easily people are swept up in " sensations , " an idea that takes on a timeless quality ( and makes the film an interesting companion piece to the current quiz show ) . 
social commentary aside , princess caraboo is simply an eminently enjoyable entertainment . 
the performers are mostly delightful , particularly phoebe cates , who is radiant in a part that requires a gift for pantomime . 
her supporting players are also appealing : wendy hughes as the patient and kindly mrs . worrall ; kevin kline as frixos , the worralls' suspicious and superior greek butler ; stephen rea as the world-weary but ultimately romantic gutch . 
only john lithgow is a disappointment , turning in a limp performance as a scholar who attempts to verify the princess's identity . 
the story twists and turns just enough so that the question of whether or not the princess is really a princess is always in some doubt , without becoming gimmicky . 
it is unfortunate that the growing attraction between gutch and princess caraboo isn't given more time to develop , because the potential seemed to be there . 
when it finally does blossom , it seems too quick to be plausible . 
princess caraboo is patient enough in establishing its sense of time and place that it might seem a bit slow to viewers seeking a fantasy romp . 
still , it has both escapist and intellectual appeal , and is well worth seeking out . 
it is the kind of film that makes my job its most rewarding--a hidden gem . 
 " through a spyglass , i could see everything . " 
king louis xvi was beheaded on january 21 , 1793 , but instead of visualizing this act of regicide , legendary auteur eric rohmer's the lady and the duke observes from afar . 
consider it a view to a kill made abstract . 
a proper british ( yes , british ) gentlewoman , grace elliott ( lucy russell ) , and her loyal maidservant gaze from a lofty terrace in meudon at the glistening city of paris , where raucous crowds seem tinier than ants . 
the maid narrates what little she sees of the execution through her telescope ( often muttering , " i don't know , " ) as the sound of cheering patriots and revolutionaries echoes through the air . 
what we don't see might not be able to hurt us . 
just close your eyes and think of england . 
during times of revolution , the aristocracy may feel a false sense of calm in their parlor halls , discussing tumultuous events over glasses of sherry until the walls cave in on them . 
adapted from elliott's memoirs , journal of my life during the french revolution , rohmer's latest artistic tour-de-force may seem far removed from his domestic comedies ( tales of the four seasons , etc . ) , a period film set during the most violent changes in french history . 
resisting the temptation for grand-scale theatrics , much of the lady and the duke is about quiet , decisive moments between members of the cultural elite as they determine how to proceed as the world implodes . 
grace elliott makes for an unlikely protagonist : a headstrong , snobbish blueblood , one unprepared for the machinations of history that sweep her along . 
a foreigner who accepts the french king as her own , grace's life seems defined by fancy attire and lively political debate with her former lover , the king's hot-blooded cousin , prince philipe , duke of orleans ( jean-claude dreyfus ) . 
the times are changing , though , and the gears inch ever closer toward violence . 
during the september massacres of 1792 , she is encountered by a procession of rioters brandishing the head of the duke's sister-in-law on a stake . 
rohmer makes a harsh transition from tranquil , old fashioned , almost stagy parlor scenes to the swell of an angry mob . 
in doing so , he achieves what braveheart and the patriot could not : the face of death . 
when grace sees her friend's disembodied head on a pole , rohmer's attention drifts from the societal change to one woman's reaction shot , laden with hot tears . 
grace finds herself taking in a fugitive from justice , sheltering him from the mob . 
through her relationship with the duke , she seeks a passport for this one activist's escape . 
grace doesn't even understand her own actions ( and the duke reacts in stunned disbelief at how she places herself in such danger ) . 
she endures persecution from robespierre and his gang of thuggish equalizers , ceaseless police monitoring , house searches , even a brief imprisonment for harmless international correspondence . 
maintaining her stiff upper lip and pampered life ( her imperious attitude to the servants never changes ) , she becomes a heroine through circumstance . 
the events themselves are intrusions upon her person , her home , and therefore her values . 
aristocracy proves a glass house , one that can barely withstand the upheaval of stones . 
the duke is called to vote on the king's punishment , and despite his hours of deliberation with friends and advisors , talk means nothing in the face of bloody action ( or futile inaction ) . 
the episodic structure creates a wobbly , jarring detachment from the events of the french revolution , which serves as metaphor but also disconnects potential audience identification . 
lazy viewers ( and critics ) may also complain that knowledge of french history is required for enjoyment of the lady and the duke . 
that's foolery , but brings up the valid criticism that rohmer's characters occasionally become didactic . 
rohmer's imperfect but assured push toward the future remains staunch and notable for casting a cautious eye upon the past while taking bold steps forward into an uncertain future . 
what may arouse interest in the lady and the duke outside of foreign film enthusiasts with literary and historical passions is rohmer's use of cutting edge digital technology as a means of exploring the theme of artifice as safety net or coping mechanism . 
the actors were filmed against a bluescreen , then placed against painted backdrops recreating the vastness of 18th century paris . 
this recreation calls attention to itself in every shot , a technicolor dream of fanciful buildings and wide-open streets . 
it looks as phony as titanic , but unlike james cameron's debacle , the lady and the duke plays with the notion of false security in those walls of stone . 
why ? 
they aren't real . 
the very foundation rohmer's characters stand upon is false , and in their groundlessness they must discover themselves , in all their insubstantial glory . 
screened at the 2001 new york film festival ( feature coming soon ) . 
wong kar-wei's " fallen angels " is , on a purely visceral level , one of the most exciting films i've seen in a long while . 
unfortunately , wong seems more interested in experimenting with his camera than creating tangible characters for the audience to root for . 
ordinarily , that alone would be enough to sink a movie , but in the case of " fallen angels " , this is not so . 
every shot in this film is exciting just to * look * at . 
wong does really interesting things with the camera , but he doesn't allow the pyrotechnics to completely take over , as was the case with last years dismal " knock off " ( which contained a shot of a foot entering a shoe . 
ugh . ) 
the movie follows three pairs of lost souls as they struggle to find some meaning in their lives . 
i can't say much more than that as i didn't really know what was going on most of the time . 
in fact , it wasn't until about halfway through the movie that i was able to distinguish between each character . 
the constantly moving camera doesn't really allow for the audience to associate with any one character . 
we're always kept at a distance from these people , i suppose in order to further add to the feeling of alienation felt by the characters . 
 " fallen angels " is a refreshing change-of-pace from most hollywood films , which never bother to try anything different , at least on a visual level . 
in fact , i'd go so far as to say that " fallen angels " is more challenging visually than any mainstream hollywood film i've ever seen . 
sure , there's directors like robert rodriguez who enjoy turning violence into operatic orgies of death , but to see a filmmaker like wong who actually assaults the senses with images is truly something worth celebrating . 
but if wong wishes to become a legendary filmmaker , he needs to work on incorporating an actual story into those awesome images . 
there were far too many instances during " fallen angels " in which i asked myself , " now who are these people again ? 
is this that first couple or the second couple ? " 
it was impossible to keep track . 
perhaps he could let the audience know right away which character is which , by introducing them to us with " name cards " , as in scorsese's " mean streets " . 
that's really besides the point , though . 
wong kar-wei has proven himself , through very few films , that's he's a movie-maker to watch . 
let's just hope that he hones his storytelling skills with his next few movies . 
city of angels is the kind of love story that i enjoy the most : thought-provoking , moving , and completely unsentimental . 
i find it interesting that this film has been released the same day as my giant , which is a film that is undone completely by its wretched sentimentality . 
city of angels is a wonderful film , enhanced by interesting and well-rounded characters and some of the most immersive imagery of the last couple of years . 
it's a love story that takes the familiar angel themes and makes them new and necessary to the story , and avoids most of the cliches we're so used to seeing in films like this . 
city of angels is an apparently loose remake of wim wenders' 1988 film wings of desire . 
i have yet to see wings of desire , so i am , unfortunately , unable to make a comparison of the two . 
i have heard , however , that city of angels is dissimilar from the original in numerous ways , which makes me glad that this film isn't a rip-off of its source material . 
nicolas cage stars as seth , an angel who , like all of his angel counterparts , is present to lead the dying to heaven ( or somewhere just like it ) . 
one day , he is forced to take the life of a patient of dr . maggie rice ( meg ryan ) , and his attention is called to her . 
the angels can make themselves seen to humans , but they can't experience any of the senses ( most importantly , touch ) . 
he shows himself to maggie , and she falls for him , unaware that he is slightly unavailable because of his apparition status . 
seth wants to become human so he can feel her . 
that's when he meets nathaniel messinger ( dennis franz ) , " former celestial messenger and recent addition to the human race . " 
 ( as a side note , i found messinger to be the most fascinating character , for i can only imagine how incredibly liberating it must be to live knowing what lies beyond death . ) 
messinger explains to seth that it is possible for angels to become human . 
seth manages to convince maggie that he is an angel ( i know , it sounds ridiculous , but the scene in which she finds out is exceptionally well-done ) ; after much deliberation , she tells him that she could only be with a man who can feel . 
this , of course , is when seth decides to take the plunge ( literally ) from a building ; when he wakes up from the fall , he is human , and happy to feel what it's like to have a split lip and blood oozing from his forehead . 
since i love this film so much , i'll make a minor note that it certainly isn't perfect . 
although it is original and mesmerizing , it does fall prey to a few of the cliches of the genre . 
the plotting of the story by writer dawn steel is rather formulaic ( though the details are what make the story excellent , and steel has done a great job with them ) . 
the ending , too , could have been more powerful and less predictable . 
these elements are minor , though , and barely detracted from my overall enjoyment of city of angels . 
the acting is superb from everyone involved . 
this is perhaps my second-favorite performance from cage ( my favorite being the rock ) . 
he's quiet and pensive , and his eyes are engaging when he speaks his softly-toned words . 
he's perfect for a role like this , and at the same time he reassures us he's not bound by playing the psycho ( though he is good at it , as he shows in face/off ) . 
meg ryan is a powerful , enticing , and appealingly-chirpy actress , and her work here is some of her best . 
dennis franz , however , steals all of his scenes as the energetic former-angel . 
what i admire most about city of angels is its overall presentation . 
director brad silberling is a talented man , and he knows that a story like this is driven by the characters , rather than forced sentimentality . 
his direction is steady , and he shows this in just about every scene : near the beginning , maggie has to tell a mother and her two children that their father is dead . 
there is no music or elaborate camera work ; we simply see the reactions of the characters to the information . 
this is the way stories should be told , and the strength of scenes resonates more completely when the emotions are real . 
the film also appeals to the senses in a way that few love stories do . 
cinematographer john seale ( the english patient ) provides some of the most stunning images i've seen on the big screen : hundreds of black-clad angels stand on a dim beach in the early morning hours ( just as an example ) . 
the music , by gabriel yared ( also of the english patient ) , is perfect for this film : it's quiet and moody music ( but not sentimental ! ) , and adds to the atmosphere and tone nicely . 
the visual presentation of city of angels is easily the best of 1998 so far . 
all of this adds up to a film that is instantly set apart from other members of this genre . 
it's a film that relies on character development and imagery to get the story across--the excellent actors and the professional production values make city of angels one of those rare films that both entertains and instigates thought simultaneously . 
have you ever wondered if death is something that simply happens naturally , at any given moment , in life ? 
or if it is an occurrence that is predetermined by some much larger force within the world , or outside of it ? 
these thought-provoking questions are the subject of " final destination , " which is the most riveting horror-drama since 1999's " the sixth sense . " 
stylishly filmed and tautly directed by " x-files " alum james wong , the film deals with several fairly heavy topics that are discussed truthfully by teenage characters ( in accurately written " teen-speak , " rather than overwrought , highly intellectualized dialogue that even harvard scholars wouldn't use ) , all the while developing into a darkly foreboding , severely eerie thriller that successfully leaves you uneasy from the horrifyingly real opening twenty minutes to the less-successful , but still suspenseful epilogue . 
at the start of the film , 17-year-old high school senior alex browning ( devon sawa ) is about to leave with his 40-student french class for a field trip to paris . 
progressively getting a case of preflight jitters , he spots several mysterious " coincidences , " including the departure time being 9 : 25 , the same as his september 25 birthday , as well as hearing the john denver song " rocky mountain high " over the sound system in the airport bathroom . 
 " john denver died in a plane crash , " alex grudgingly mutters to himself . 
once seated , alex suddenly gets a horrific premonition about the plane exploding upon takeoff , and after causing a ruckus onboard , he , as well as six other students and a teacher , are thrown off . 
arguing in the airport lobby , alex's suspicion comes true when the plane really does explode in flight , killing all 300+ passengers , including the rest of their classmates . 
as two investigators interrogate alex about how he knew the plane was going to explode , the fellow survivors , whom he has saved , treat him in varying manners . 
carter ( kerr smith ) , the hotshot jock , holds him in contempt because he believes that it is only he himself who can decide his fate . 
alex's best friend , tod ( chad e . donella ) , wants to stand by him but can't because of his fearful parents . 
the teacher , mrs . lewton ( kristen cloke ) , is frightened by him , believing that it was he who somehow caused the disaster , as well as in a state of guilt for giving up her seat on the plane to a fellow coworker . 
only outsider clear rivers ( ali larter ) , who unboarded the plane due to a sudden connection to alex's premonition even though she had never even spoken to him before , is sympathetic and thankful to him for saving her life . 
that is only the setup of " final destination , " and the less said about what follows , the better . 
suffice to say , the film does , indeed , turn into a slasher film , albeit one that is more thoughtful than most , and replaces a knife-wielding maniac for the never-seen granddaddy killer of them all , the grim reaper itself . 
the setpieces in any horror movie are the death scenes , and " final destination " surely boosts some of the most inventive ones to grace the silver screen in years . 
graphic and brilliantly orchestrated in a rube goldbergesque manner , they manage to occasionally be so intense you don't know whether to shrink down in your seat , tap your feet in nervousness , or turn away . 
devon sawa , a rising star who put his physical comedy skills to good use in 1999's underseen slasher-comedy , " idle hands , " is even more of a charismatic presence here . 
the conflicting emotions he feels for his survival , which he comes to believe he wasn't meant to do , as well as the loss of the other passengers , is superbly and subtly acted on his part . 
one scene , in which he is watching a news report on the crash and slowly begins to break down is especially realistic and powerful . 
ali larter ( 1999's " varsity blues " ) , in the other central role , is also effective , as a girl whose life was going well until her father died in a convenience store shooting years before , leaving her stuck with an increasingly uncaring mother who married a loutish man--the exact opposite of her now-deceased father . 
the other roles are not as fully written , and most remain rather one-dimensional . 
the movie is mainly sawa's , however , and the rest of the actors equip themselves well in limited roles . 
tony todd ( 1992's " candyman " ) , as an arcane morgue attendant , pops up for a five-minute cameo , but his appearance is rather supererogatory . 
and the aforementioned dialogue occasionally hits the bullseye , while at other times it hovers over being just a little too stilted and campy . 
ultimately , what is so good about " final destination " is that , within the confines of the slasher genre , writer-director wong and screenwriters glen morgan and jeffrey reddick have created a premise that has never been seen before in this manner , and a film that has the ability to both surprise and frighten--two things that are rarely found in today's horror films . 
if anything , it's safe to say you will never ever look at flying in airplanes the same way again . 
originally entitled dancing about architecture ( i . e . 
 " talking about love is like dancing about architecture " ) , but changed because it sounded too much like the recent box-office dud dancing at lughnasa , this film slaps together a stunning cast of hollywood names , playing interesting and well-written characters , within a vignettes-styled plot arrangement a la robert altman . 
plot : follow the lives of several couples falling in and out of love , finding themselves , regaining a clearer understanding of the people that they are , and who they want , and appreciating the fine emotional art of love . 
critique : charmingly effective romantic drama , this film offers insight into various types of relationships , presents us with interesting characters and excellent performances from the cast , and scratches beneath the surface of love and its many complex subtleties . 
how do people fall in love ? 
why do people fall out of love ? 
how do people fall back into love , once they've been hurt and left to join the lonely hearts club ? 
all of these questions and more , are touched upon in this film , within several types of variant relationships . 
meet a hip , young couple going through their first date . 
a divorcee attempting to date again after her many failed relationships . 
a married woman " finding herself " while cheating on her husband . 
a husband letting go of his inhibitions . 
an older couple dealing with a past " love " of the man , a secret recently uncovered . 
a son dying from aids , joined by his mother at the hospital . 
there are many nuances to this picture , and many ideas and quotes to which we could all relate , but more importantly , there is diversity . 
diversity of relationships helped me and my gang of friends enjoy this film on many levels . 
some related to the younger couples' issues . 
others with the married . 
there's a little bit of everything for everyone in here . 
and i would bet dollars to donuts that if i were to watch this film again in a year , i would relate myself to yet another predicament . 
just like love itself , this movie is distinct and appreciated by all on many different levels . 
the actors in this film are all also very , very good . 
sean connery is solid as the older man with some issues to resolve , as is gena rowlands , as the aging wife with trepidations . 
jolie comes out of this film a star with a great performance , while philippe is as pretty-boy as ever . 
anderson leaves scully far behind with her wonderful portrayal of a damaged woman trying to re-ignite her love life , opposite a surprisingly admirable performance by former talk-show host , jon stewart . 
even dennis quaid manages to step outside of his overacting shoes in this film , and offers a convincing show of a man lost within his own imagination . 
the only piece of this puzzle which left me somewhat detached , was the part surrounding jay mohr , the man dying from aids , and his mother , ellen burstyn . 
the actors were fine , but somehow , the piece seemed out of place within the realm of everything else . 
the ending of this film was also a little too saccharine for me , but i guess that's just hollywood . 
this film is actually a lot like your friends and neigbors ( 5 . 5/10 ) and happiness ( 4 . 5/10 ) in concept and style , but its complete anthesis in regards to character relatibility and likeness . 
the characters in those films were too unique and inhuman for anyone to care , as opposed to this film , which offers rich and believable characters , living real lives and talking about real issues in today's relationships . 
all in all , this movie offers many interesting characters , talking and living genuine and engaging love lives , wonderful performances by its solid cast , too sweet of an ending , but an enjoyable and rewatchable movie nonetheless . 
little known facts about this film and its stars : according to a story in the london sunday mirror , sean connery asked for only $60 , 000 for his role in this movie , as compared to his usual fee of $14 million , because he liked the script so much . 
on top of that , he convinced his co-stars ( including gena rowlands , gillian anderson , ellen burstyn , et al . ) to do the same . 
this is director/writer willard carroll second real foray into the world of " adult films " . 
before this , he had written and produced many children's movies . 
gillian anderson stands 5'2 . 
angelina jolie's full name is angelina jolie voight . 
she is actor jon voight's daughter . 
she has trained and performed at the lee strasberg theatre institute . 
she divorced actor jonny lee miller of trainspotting ( 8 . 5/10 ) 
fame in 1997 . 
they were married in 1995 . 
actor ryan phillippe's full name is matthew ryan phillippe . 
he stands 5'9 , and spent his childhood in new castle , delaware . 
his acting career started on tv's " one life to live " . 
he portrayed daytime television's first gay teenager . 
jon stewart's full name is jonathan stewart leibowitz . 
this film was originally entitled if they only knew and dancing about architecture . 
watch for movie posters from swingers ( 8 . 5/10 ) , 
chasing amy ( 7/10 ) and the texas chainsaw massacre ( 8/10 ) at the movie theatre where the characters of joan and keenan go on their first date . 
 " well this is not mission : difficult , mr . hunt , it's mission : impossible . 
difficult should be a walk in the park for you . " 
---agent swanbeck ( sir anthony hopkins ) , the series' new agent phelps , takes ethan hunt ( tom cruise ) down a notch . 
a russian scientist ( rade serbedzija ) has created a new virus ( and its antidote ) called chimera that destroys its host within twenty hours of injection . 
a rogue imf agent , sean ambrose ( dougray scott ) , wants to use the disease and cure to blackmail a pharmaceutical company into selling him enough stock to make him owner of the company ( he knows it will soon be worth its weight in gold thanks to the outbreak of the virus he is going to cause ) . 
posing as ethan hunt , ambrose gains the confidence of the scientist long enough to get only the cure , not realizing that the scientist had injected himself with the virus to prevent exactly what ambrose was trying to do . 
the real ethan hunt is called in from his vacation to persuade beautiful thief nyah nordoff-hall ( thandie newton ) to assist the imf team in retrieving the stolen goods . 
ethan and nyah fall quickly in love , but ethan soon finds himself in a real dilemma when he learns that his new love has only been hired because she was a former lover of ambrose's . 
reluctantly , he sets up nyah to be rescued from prison by ambrose so she can infiltrate his compound and send back intelligence to the team . 
ethan must race against time to keep ambrose from obtaining and spreading the virus and prevent any harm from coming to nyah . 
although the first mission : impossible film was a moderate box office success , audiences panned it because they felt the plot was too confusing and there wasn't much action ( although being a fan of the series both old and new , i thought the movie was pretty decent and especially gutsy to make phelps a bad guy ) . 
that problem has been rectified in the sequel by making the plot more accessible ( courtesy of one of the writers of the previous entry , robert towne ) and by turning the film into one gigantic action set piece under the steady hand of action film guru john woo . 
the end result is one of the most entertaining ( yet simple ) action films made in a long while . 
unfortunately , the first forty minutes or so are relatively slow , dwelling mainly on ethan and nyah's quickly blossoming romance and seeming more in place in a james bond film than with the less glamorous mission : impossible tv series . 
ethan's conflict is a compelling one , but it seems very rushed ( and comes about because of a near fatal car wreck that ethan himself causes ! ) . 
john woo handles all of this with an artistic flair that seems out of place , featuring a great deal of slow fades and dramatically framed close-ups . 
the surreal nature of these sequences are distracting and ultimately a detriment to the film . 
thankfully though , at the point ambrose discovers nyah's deception , mission : impossible ii becomes very entertaining and action-packed . 
robert towne's screenplay takes some of the conventions set up in the first film and parodies them during a sequence where ethan must break into a high-rise building and retrieve the remaining specimens of the virus . 
after that , the action scenes just begin to build in intensity , as is the case with many of woo's previous high-octane films . 
the final half hour is an all out assault of action ( a good deal of which is ruined by the trailer , unfortunately ) . 
as far as summer entertainment goes , mission : impossible ii is serviceable fare . 
anyone looking for hardcore action won't be disappointed ( except for during the first half of the film , perhaps ) . 
even if you weren't a fan of the first film , this entry deserves some checking out . 
[pg-13] 
robert redford is very good at playing characters who have incredible , god-given gifts , but are able to act like ordinary people . 
in " the natural " ( 1984 ) , he played the fallen angelic character of roy hobbs , the baseball player who was destined to be " the best there ever was , " but still acted like a humble farm boy . 
in " butch cassidy and the sundance kid " ( 1969 ) , he was the most dangerous shot in the west , yet he came off like a nothing more than a boyishly good-looking charmer . 
even in " indecent proposal " ( 1993 ) , where he played a man who was so good at making money that he believed he could buy love , redford was still able to exude an aura of shy decency , especially when reciting a tale of lost love . 
in his latest film , " the horse whisperer , " based on the best-selling novel by nicholas evans , redford again plays such a character . 
redford also directed the film although he swore up and down that he would never direct himself in a movie - i suppose the character of tom booker , a man who has the amazing gift of understanding and somehow communicating with horses , was just too good to pass up . 
despite his enormous and rare gift when it comes to training troubled horses ( a magazine article coins the phrase " horse whisperer " to describe his uncanny talent ) , booker sees himself as an everyday cattle rancher whose greatest fear is growing old and no longer having a purpose in life . 
booker's talents are taxed into service by annie maclean ( kristin scott thomas ) , a new york magazine editor whose daughter , grace ( scarlett johansson ) , was recently in a horrible accident . 
the accident , which is filmed with gut-wrenching horror , happens when grace and her best friend are out riding horses - an eighteen-wheeler kills grace's friend , severely wounds and traumatizes grace's horse , pilgrim , and causes grace to lose part of her right leg . 
annie believes that if pilgrim can be healed , grace will be healed as well , which leads her to booker . 
at first , she tries to get booker to come to new york to see the horse , but that doesn't work . 
instead , she packs up grace and pilgrim , leaves her husband , robert ( sam neill ) behind , and heads for the rolling hills of montana where booker runs a ranch with his brother , frank ( chris cooper ) , and his sister-in-law , diane ( dianne wiest ) . 
in many ways , the film is like a journey , both literally and symbolically . 
the move out west has always been a great american tradition of renewal , and it's hard not to see annie and grace's leaving manhattan for montana as a variation on the classic theme of city vs . country . 
in " the horse whisperer , " country is clearly the victor . 
the city is characterized by claustrophobia and unhappiness , and it is not until the characters arrive in the wide-open spaces of montana that grace's anger at being physically and emotionally crippled begins to dissipate , annie's controlling nature begins to relax , and pilgrim once again learns to trust people . 
redford is just as in love with the grand montana country in this film as he was when he directed " a river runs through it " six years ago . 
in many ways , " the horse whisperer " comes from the same poetic vein as " river , " and the movie could probably be a good fifteen minutes shorter if redford had decided to spend less camera-time on the grass and mountains . 
but then , that would ruin the magic . 
much of the film's photography is truly elegant , and it creates a palpable sense of the sheer expansiveness of the land . 
to further emphasize this , redford and cinematographer robert richardson ( " natural born killers , " " platoon " ) cheated a bit by shooting the beginning of the film - which takes place in new york - with mostly cold , harsh bluish filters and a more squarish 1 . 85 : 1 aspect ratio ; when the action shifts to montana , richardson switches to soft-focus and natural lighting , and the screen widens to a 2 . 35 : 1 aspect ratio . 
in terms of the story itself , " the horse whisperer " gives us the same romanticized view of adultery found in david lean's " a brief encounter " ( 1945 ) and clint eastwood's 1995 adaptation of robert james waller's " the bridges of madison county " ( richard lagravenese , co-screenwriter here also adapted " bridges " ) . 
although " the horse whisperer " has a strong romantic sensibility , i still find something oddly troubling about this kind of story . 
it seems to me that there should be some sympathy for the husband who's being left behind for this brief , heart-sweeping affair , but there rarely is . 
in " the horse whisperer , " the thankless role of being the fuddy-duddy husband falls to sam neill . 
he plays the character as a decent , hard-working man who is a good husband and father ; his only failure is that he loves his wife more than she loves him . 
he is at risk of losing annie to booker not because he did anything to drive her away , but simply because he happens to be a normal , fairly uninspiring man . 
there is one scene that is particularly telling of how the movie feels about each character . 
it shows booker and robert going into a horse pen - booker is dressed like a classic cowboy with hat and all , while robert looks somewhat frumpy and out-of-place in a baseball cap . 
as they enter the pen , booker assuredly swings over the fence , while robert hesitates , then opens the gate and , in a goofy moment , forgets to close it behind him . 
it's a small scene , but it clearly demonstrates the movie's thorough love of the booker character for his romantic roughness . 
after all , booker represents everything good about the city while robert represents everything banal and unnatural about it . 
the best scenes in " the horse whisperer " tend to involve not the building romance between booker and annie , but rather the healing process of grace and her horse . 
although booker's horse-training methods are mythical and unrealistic , the scenes with him and pilgrim are strangely mesmerizing . 
these are paralleled by the scenes between him and grace , some of which are humorous , and all of which are tender and true . 
at some point , i wished the movie would drop the whole romance angle and focus on grace more . 
nevertheless , redford is obviously a romantic at heart , and he brings a light touch to the erotic moments in the film . 
there are no dramatic sex scenes , but there is a moving scene when he and scott thomas are slow-dancing , always moving ever closer together , that is far more erotic than any scene of sweaty bodies grinding together . 
although the movie is longer than it should be and is essentially a melodramatic tearjerker with an unsatisfying conclusion that guarantees unhappiness for just about every character , there are enough moments like that which make " the horse whisperer " worth the price of admission . 
in roger michell's romantic comedy notting hill , william thacker ( hugh grant ) leads a rather dreary life maintaining his flagging travel bookshop in the quaint section of london which lends it's name to the film's title . 
one day , american movie superstar anna scott ( julia roberts ) walks in to purchase a book on turkey . 
quickly enamored of each other , the two embark upon an on-again , off-again love affair replete with romance , humor , and the occasional lump in the throat . 
the film opens with a non-verbal cue to anna's stardom as the title credits appear over a montage of slow motion sequences featuring the actress's appearances in films and at premieres - coming out of limousines , walking the red carpets and such . 
without words , this sequence gives us a background to her character . 
following , however , is a set-up narration by william indicating what he does and where he lives . 
i don't know why the filmmakers chose to go with a narration which tells us nothing we couldn't have figured out by watching the first ten minutes of film , and which never resurfaces after the movie's beginning , but there it is . 
if there were ever a clear case for " less is more , " this would be it . 
the film is told nearly first person from william's point of view , as he is in every scene . 
by nature of this arrangement , we get a very definite sense of what he is all about , and his nice guy personality wins us over easily . 
in fact , much of notting hill's strength lies in the great dialog written for this character by richard curtis . 
a scene where william is still in shock over the fact that he's even talking to a silver screen goddess is made golden by the way bumbles through his attempt to offer her some honey-soaked apricots from his refrigerator . 
or take an instance where anna kisses william and asks him never to tell anyone for fear of the incident hurting her image . 
william assures her he wouldn't say a word , then adds , " well , i'll probably tell myself now and then , but i'd never believe it . " 
great stuff . 
the downside to spending so much time with william is that we don't get to see enough of anna to make their relationship whole and plausible . 
we're constantly exposed to william's thoughts , feelings , actions and desires , but don't actually get the sense of how much anna really feels for him . 
there are a couple of instances where she declares her obvious interest , but they nearly come out of nowhere due to the fact that we're not sure what she's been thinking all the times in between . 
this , combined with the sheer iniquity of screen time between the two , makes this hugh grant's film hands down . 
he gets the great scenes ( look for one in which he has to portray an interviewer from horse and hound magazine in order to speak with anna ) , the great lines , and gives an overall wonderful performance . 
julia roberts fans will probably be disappointed by the actress's top billing and subsequent lack of involvement in the film ( ala sandra bullock in a time to kill ) along with her detached performance which is only worsened by her character's unpredictable behavior . 
anna doesn't get a lot of our compassion . 
this romantic comedy leans a little more toward the comedy than the romance , much of it supplied by grant himself , but with considerable help from the supporting cast . 
most notable is rhys ifans as spike , william's eccentric roommate , who is in the film for no other purpose than to make us laugh . 
hugh bonneville , emma chambers , james dreyfus , and gina mckee bring up the guard as william's friends and family , particularly shining in a scene where william brings anna to his sister's birthday dinner , and we get to see how these common folks react to the presence of a movie star in their midst . 
it's a scene most of us will probably think would play out in our own living rooms were we faced with a similar situation . 
roger michell's use of visuals doesn't sweep us off our feet , but does give us more than your typical movie of this type . 
for example , there are a couple of instances in this film where large amounts of time pass . 
whereas some films are content to simply put in a caption saying " eight months later , " michell presents us with more interesting cues , such as william's walk though his neighborhood while the seasons change around him . 
another memorable shot occurs in a park where the camera is lifted from ground level to a couple of hundred feet in the air . 
we're generally used to scenes where our point of view is lifted from the earth to treetop level or so , but in this case , the camera just keeps going up and up until we have a bird's eye view of the ground below . 
music is used rather glaringly as an enhancement to many of the film's scenes , and some of this might have been better toned down , but in other areas it works to full effect . 
it's kind of a mixed bag , but still fares better than many of today's lighthearted movies which are so influenced by the mtv fare that the film becomes one long music video . 
at least this film has some pretty good music that for the most part remains relevant and appropriate . 
notting hill's grant and roberts will not go down in history as one of the all-time greatest film pairings , but the chemistry is decent and the comedic aspects of the movie more than make up for it . 
for a couple of hours , you should expect to laugh more than cry , and that's not so bad , now is it ? 
ingredients : man with amnesia who wakes up wanted for murder , dark science fiction city controlled by alien beings with mental powers . 
synopsis : what if you woke up one day , and suspected you were not on earth , and instead were part of an experiment in a giant space terrarium manipulated by intergalactic alien zookeepers ? 
in dark city john murdoch ( rufus sewell ) has this problem . 
dark city starts out like a 1940s noir amnesia detective mystery . 
poor john wakes up with amnesia in a hotel room with a dead dame in one corner . 
a mysterious phone call tells him to get the heck out of there , and soon enough john is chased all over town by a murderous army of pale people in black trench-coats , as well as by the police , and the dogged inspector bumstead ( william hurt ) . 
is john a murderer , and what can his missing memories tell him ? 
he searches through his own wallet for possible contacts and clues . 
but when the clues don't fit , it doesn't just confuse him ; it causes john to go so far as to question the whole nature of reality in the dark city . 
to john , something is fishy , and very unreal about this city . 
how come it's always dark , and nobody seems to remember what they did this morning ? 
and how come nobody seems to remember how to leave the city , or how to get to nearby shell beach ? 
every night , around midnight , john notices that the whole city enters a state of suspended animation , and at this time , creepy alien experimenters known as the 'strangers' come out and do nasty things like inject fake memories into people's heads with big hypodermic needles . 
the strangers have the ability to 'tune , ' or warp reality using telepathic powers . 
turns out , the city is not on earth at all . 
and the reason why john doesn't fall victim to the nightly suspended animation , is because he is a human mutation that possesses the same god-like reality-warping abilities as the strangers . 
even with the help of scientist dr . daniel schreber , can john take back the dark city ? 
opinion : director alex proyas ( he also directed the crow ) mentions this in the dark city press kit : in films , science fiction is always " used to have big spaceships blow up cities . 
i think we're a little tired of that . " 
according to director proyas , probably the most interesting thing about dark city is its layers . 
it's designed so that you can watch the film over again , and examine it from the perspective of a main character other than murdoch . 
it's a philosophical piece . 
cinematic science fiction is basically a thinly disguised shootout between the good humans and the bad aliens ( whether they be klingons , giant bugs , or proponents of the dark side of the force ) . 
but science fiction in books reaches beyond the 'shoot-em-up' level and targets the big questions , questions like who are we ? 
what is the human condition ? 
what is ethical ? 
what would a true human being do ? 
far from comic book style on the order of spawn , batman , or the mutant ninja turtles , dark city not only features the showdown between good humans and powerful aliens , but it also asks questions worthy of films such as brazil or blade runner . 
dark city is what philosophers would call an existentialist screenplay . 
a little more than 200 years ago , the world was filled with unhappy peasants - - unhappy because nearly every aspect of their lives was controlled by totalitarian , military , conformist , medieval regimes . 
the people took refuge in religion , the idea being that earthly life was a time of suffering , but after death , heaven would be available . 
meanwhile , the state used these same ideas to prop up their regimes ; the king was often head of the religion and therefore sanctioned by heaven . 
when science finally overturned religion , the medieval dictatorships came tumbling down and were replaced by democratic governments . 
but the new fear was that the power of science and experimentation would be used to create a world order as darkly totalitarian as the old . 
this is the time period when writers and philosophers such as freud , kant , kafka , nietzsche , and dostoevsky pondered what society should be , and what place the individual had in it . 
the existentialists' in particular wrote about the power of the lone individual against what may be a hostile , indifferent , or alienated universe . 
in dark city , when the last dying , defeated alien asks john murdoch why the aliens' scientific experiments on the human beings' brains failed , murdoch replies , pointing to his head , " because the human condition isn't located in here . " 
every once in a while , when an exceptional family film comes along , i will attempt to champion it by challenging parents to put their money where their mouths have been ; with all the hubbub over the lack of films suitable for children , it is remarkable how many non-disney films disappear in a couple of weeks . 
now i see that in so doing , i have unfairly ghettoized these films . 
so i am issuing my challenge not just to parents , but to anyone who wants to support smart , funny , energetic film-making : see matilda . 
see it in a theater , rather than shrugging and waiting for it on video . 
see the best film i have seen in 1996 . 
not the best children's film . . . the 
best film . 
period . 
based on a story by roald dahl , it tells of young matilda wormwood ( mara wilson ) , an extraordinarily bright girl whose great misfortune it is to have a pair of deeply stupid parents : harry ( danny devito ) , a crooked used car salesman ; and zinnia ( rhea perlman ) , a simple-minded bingo addict . 
the wormwoods barely notice matilda exists , and when they do , it is only to scold her for spending too much time reading books . 
when they finally do send her to school , it is to crunchem hall , a bleak place run by cruel , child-hating miss agatha trunchbull ( pam ferris ) . 
but things begin to look up for matilda when she discovers a sympathetic teacher , miss honey ( embeth davidtz ) , who nurtures her natural inquisitiveness . 
matilda also discovers another special talent -- the ability to move things with her mind -- which allows her to help herself and miss honey to overcome miss trunchbull's cruelty . 
it was this spring's james and the giant peach which inspired me to note that the best and most lasting tales for children tended to have more than a hint of darkness to them , and you can bet that the roald dahl responsible for the gleeful ghoulishness of james and willy wonka and the chocolate factory has more of the same in store with matilda . 
and just as james benefited from the dark sensibilities of henry selick and tim burton , matilda soars on the cock-eyed direction of danny devito . 
devito made black humor a key element in throw momma from the train and the war of the roses , and he contributes some memorable images . 
in one scene , an unfortunate girl is made an example of by miss trunchbull when she is picked up by her pig-tails and flung through the air like a throwing hammer ; later , an overweight boy is forced to eat an entire massive cake after he is caught stealing a dessert . 
matilda is just twisted enough to be a perfect fairy tale . 
it is also characteristic of the best children's tales that they manage to teach lessons in such a way that children almost don't realize that they are learning them . 
there is a hilarious moment when matilda's television-addicted father snatches away the book she is reading ( in a wicked joke , he thinks _moby dick_ is pornographic ) and forces her to watch an inane game show ( hosted by jon lovitz ) in which contestants are smeared with adhesive and placed in a booth filled with cash blowing around . 
matilda is a story which promotes the value of intellectual curiosity over passive entertainment , and it does so while poking holes in that most frustrating of notions for a child -- that because " i'm big and you're little , i'm right and you're wrong . " 
more specifically , it has as its heroine an intelligent , self-confident girl who struggles successfully against other people's notions of how she should behave . 
it is no coincidence that matilda was co-written by robin swicord , who contributed the superb recent adaptation of little women . 
finally , matilda has that quality i find rarest and most treasured in family entertainment : it is family entertainment in the truest sense of the word . 
devito knows enough to make matilda fast-paced and appealing to children , taking a deliciously nasty performance by pam ferris as miss trunchbull and making it the focal point of some priceless physical comedy , including a great chase through her dark house . 
the child actors are winning but never obnoxiously adorable , with mara wilson making matilda a clever and extremely likeable character . 
but there are also many , many delights for adults , including my favorite scene in which matilda uses her powers to frighten miss trunchbull by having chalk write on a chalkboard by itself while matilda's classmates recite in sing-song fashion ; there is also a deadpan cameo by paul reubens as an fbi agent staking out matilda's father . 
i can't imagine anyone of any age leaving matilda feeling as though his or her intelligence had been insulted . 
matilda is a film which left me glowing with good feeling . 
i will see it again , and years from now i will watch it with my children . 
and now i will stop , because somewhere near you matilda is about to begin , and there is a seat in that theater you should be in , if you have a child or ever were a child . 
usually when one is debating who the modern queen of the romantic comedy is they will bring up names like julia roberts or sandra bullock . 
others will mention meg ryan . 
but for me , it's not even close . 
janeane garofalo is not only the queen of the romantic comedy , she is the best comic actress in hollywood right now . 
and it's a good thing she's starring in the matchmaker , because without her presence the movie would be bland , unfunny , and dull . 
garofalo stars as marcy tizard , a top aide to boston senator john mcglory , who is suffering in the polls . 
in an attempt to capture the irish vote , he sends marcy on a mission to a small irish town called ballinagra in search of other mcglory's that never moved to america . 
unfortunately for marcy , her visit coincides with the town's annual matchmaking festival . 
things get off to a rocky start for marcy though . 
she has no hotel reservations ( for no rational reason ) and the tiny confined room ( tired old cliche' ) she has to stay in has a visitor in her bathtub . 
his name is sean , and marcy finds him repugnant at first , so you can obviously tell where this is headed . 
the movie runs into a few roadblocks . 
for instance , the story is very thin . 
none of the characters ( except the old local matchmaker ) are nearly as interesting as garofalo . 
some of the characters , like the political aide played by denis leary , have wandered in from a completely different movie . 
i think the director realized this and decided to throw in numerous shots of the beautiful irish scenery , and several close-ups of garofalo's winning smile . 
the strange thing is that it works . 
garofalo's charm and the irish scenery could carry the thinnest of stories , and it carries this one . 
susan granger's review of " bread and tulips " ( first look pictures ) 
in this delightfully frothy italian romantic comedy , after accidentally being left behind by a tour bus while on a family vacation with her cranky husband and two cynical teenagers , rosalba ( licia maglietta ) , an unhappy housewife from pescara , finds herself - and love - in venice . 
for the first time in years , rosalba's on her own when she's abandoned at a highway rest area . 
although her philandering husband ( antonio catania ) , a plumbing-supply dealer , orders her to stay there until she's picked up , she impulsively accepts a ride to venice , a bohemian paradise which she's never visited . 
rosalba finds refuge and romance with fernando ( bruno ganz ) , a gruff icelandic waiter who offers her a spare room in his modest apartment and prepares breakfast for her each morning . 
to support herself , she gets a job working with a florist ( antonio catania ) . 
film-maker silvio soldini gently explores the blossoming of this bored , middle-aged , middle-class woman with warmth and affection , savoring special moments such as when rosalba starts playing the accordion again and abandons her maroon stretch pants , silver jacket and orange sneakers for a simple , new red-and-white dress with platform-soled espadrilles . 
the superb actors slip into their roles seamlessly , particularly luminous licia maglietta and low-key bruno ganz , along with marina massironi as her nosy massage-therapist neighbor and giuseppe massironi as the inept plumber-turned-private eye who's sent to retrieve her on orders from her frantic husband - who's discovered that his mistress has no interest in doing his laundry or cleaning the house . 
on the granger movie gauge of 1 to 10 , " bread and tulips " is a beguiling , escapist 8 . 
as the summer ends , it's a magical getaway for mature audiences . . 
 " i know what you did last summer , " the first high-profile slasher thriller to be released after 1996's " scream , " and written by the same screenwriter , kevin williamson , is a stylish , effective horror film that became 1997's biggest hit of the fall season . 
while " scream " was a more knowing film about the genre , " i know what you did last summer " is more reminiscent of a straight-forward slasher flick , but it is far more intelligent than such bottom-of-the-barrel guilty pleasures as all nine of the " friday the 13th " films ( well , okay , " jason goes to hell " was pure hell to sit through ) . 
the film starts off with four talented , aspiring teenage friends who have just graduated from high school in their small boating town of southport , n . c . 
it is the 4th of july , and they will soon be heading their separate ways . 
kind-hearted julie ( jennifer love hewitt ) , and outsider ray ( freddie prinze jr . ) will be headed off to college , while helen ( sarah michelle gellar ) , who has just been honored croaker queen in the town , and her ignorant jock boyfriend , barry ( ryan phillippe ) , are going to new york to become an actress and football player . 
when the four of them travel to a nearby mountain-side beach for the evening , they are dismayed after hitting a man in the road on their way home . 
distraught and confused , they decide they can't go to the police because they will be charged with manslaughter , so they devise a plan to throw the apparently dead victim off a peer into the ocean , in hopes no one will find him . 
julie is apprehensive about it , but is forced into it by barry . 
switch to exactly a year later , julie , still unable to come to terms with what she did , reluctantly returns home from college to find that all three of her old friends are still in the town because their career plans did not work out . 
almost immediately , julie recieves an ominous letter that simply reads , " i know what you did last summer , " and that is the start of their problems as they find themselves being terrorized by a mysterious figure dressed in fisherman gear and yielding a giant hook . 
 " i know what you did last summer , " is a successful horror film for a number of reasons . 
the cinematography by denis crossan could very well be described as hitchcockian , as it put shadows , fog , steam , and other clever devices to add atmosphere to the proceedings . 
the characters , particularly julie and helen , are realistically written , and the film amazingly deals with their broken relationship in a few scenes , which is largely uncharacteristic in films of this sort . 
and last , the film creates a few dazzling and scary set-pieces that are some of the most memorable i've seen in a horror movie , particularly the suspenseful , superbly shot sequence involving helen at her family's store with the killer inside with her . 
perhaps the best character is that of missy egan ( anne heche ) , a lonely backwoods woman whose brother was the one julie thinks they hit . 
heche's performance is a standout , as she is able to create a full character in only about ten minutes of screen time . 
 " i know what you did last summer , " could have been a great horror movie if not for a few problems . 
prinze jr . gives a performance to be desired here , and much of his dialogue sounds wooden coming out of his mouth . 
also , the climax of the film almost completely loses its frightening grip after it unveils the mystery killer , who is a decidedly bad actor and should not have been given any lines . 
luckily , the penultimate scene saves the disappointing finale , which includes an expertly crafted " jump-in-your-seat " scare . 
in the main roles , hewitt and gellar are highly talented , and hewitt , especially , is one of the best screamers i've ever heard . 
she honestly could give jamie lee curtis a little competition for the best " scream queen . " 
and gellar is touching as a young woman who , in the course of one year , finds her dream of being an actress ultimately shattered . 
although not up to the level of either " scream " movies , or the more recent , " urban legend , " " i know what you did last summer " is a respectable , smartly-scripted slasher film that firmly proved good horror movies were once again being made . 
labelling is sometimes everything . 
in original mad max , the opening title set the plot of the movie in near future , thus making it one of the science fiction classics , despite the future world being almost exactly like our own . 
walter hill wanted the same opening title for his action classic the warriors . 
producers weren't thrilled by that idea and consequently the movie lost all of its futuristic overtones . 
on the other hand , producers were right on the mark ; walter hill was accused of actually promoting some disturbing trends that were quite visible in contemporary america . 
to make the movie even more distant from future , plot was loosely based on anabasis , historical book written by xenophon , greek mercenary soldier who had described his adventures in ancient persia 2400 years ago . 
instead of ancient persia , movie begins in contemporary coney island , where cleon ( dorsey wright ) , leader of the warriors , local youth gang , gets invitation to the great gathering of all youth gangs from the city . 
the gathering , organised by gramercy park riffs , most powerful gang in the city , is taking place in bronx . 
that is far away from warriors' home territory , but small and unarmed delegation of the warriors gets there safely thanks to the general truce . 
on the gathering , cyrus ( roger hill ) , charismatic leader of the riffs , announces his grand plan to unite all the gangs and take over the city . 
crowd is enthusiastic , but the small gang of rogues , led by psychopathic luther ( david patrick kelly ) uses the opportunity to assassinate cyrus . 
police simultaneously raids the gathering , and in the commotion warriors get blamed by the killing , and their leader gets killed by riffs . 
the remaining eight , led by cleon's lieutenant swann ( michael beck ) , must now try to get to coney island , but this time unprotected by truce and instead being chased by all the gangs . 
upon its release , despite the controversies and even some youth riots that were allegedly inspired by it , the warriors enjoyed immense popularity and very quickly received some kind of a cult status . 
however , despite being one of the best movies of that year , and being directed by talented action director walter hill at the peak of his career , the movie failed to leave as strong impression to the future generations as some other cinematic achievements of that same year . 
the reason for that probably lies in a fact that this movie aged very quickly . 
if walter hill's idea was to warn the public about problems of urban america , he failed miserably . 
the future was much worse than his vision . 
the youth gangs , as presented in the warriors , are far from shadowy armies , able to take over entire cities . 
their members seem more interested in unorthodox fashion and their little petty feuds than such prosaic , and for the public more annoying , matters like crime . 
in their vocabulary , word " arms " is reserved for small knives and blunt objects , and only few of them use heavy artillery like handguns . 
they even have their own , very strict and detailed laws , upheld more strictly than some governments do with their own . 
many people in american cities would be more than happy to see their young criminals behaving like those in the warriors . 
some of the critics who accused hill of actually praising youth crime had a lot arguments in their favour . 
despite those objections , the warriors have all the elements of a very good film . 
the plot is simple , and serves as good basis for numerous action scenes . 
the fights are brilliantly choreographed and quite realistic , although there isn't much bloodshed or gore in the movie . 
editing is superb , events happen at quick pace , with the exception of middle , when boring moralistic exchanges between swann and his would-be-girlfriend mercy ( deborah van valkenburgh ) drag the plot from straight action to social drama territory . 
the soundtrack by barry de vorzon is very suggestive and recognisable . 
yet , the trademark of this film are the actors who showed great talent , although most of them later sunk into anonymity . 
best known of them is david patrick kelly , whose superb and original performance in this film later subscribed him to the roles of psychopathic villains . 
michael beck as cool , almost statesman-like leader of a gang , is also very good , and james remar gives good contrast as his hot-shot contender for top spot . 
all in all , this movie is perhaps dated , yet in its hour and half can give a lot more entertainment than most of the contemporary movies . 
for those who associate italian cinema with fellini and " high art , " the son's room is an inventive , subtle alternative . 
written by , directed , and starring nanni moretti , it takes us through the slow , complicated path of bereavement . 
slow is the best description for the film at first . 
it takes its time in establishing the habits of what appears to be a normal , happy family . 
father and mother both work but still find the time to support their son and daughter through homework and after school activities . 
they laugh , spend free time together , and reprimand the kids for innocent wrongs with a sigh and soft pat on the shoulder . 
you get the feeling there is open communication and unconditional love amongst the foursome . 
but suddenly , the son is found to be dead after a diving accident . 
the family dynamics begin an unpredictable descent that gives the narrative strength when you least expect it , but can also be trying on the attention span . 
though the film drags and even repeats itself , this can be somewhat excused as influenced by the process of grieving . 
though nanni moretti wore several hats for this production , it doesn't come across as a vanity piece . 
one might wish he hadn't picked the profession of analyst for the father , giovanni ( which he stars as ) , if only because this makes his character's reactions so predictable . 
what saves it is a well written script , with spare dialogue and an eclectic variety of human interaction . 
the potency of the film lies in the recreation of the tiny details of everyday life that alter due to the death of a close relative , or that remind a depressed person of loss . 
you start to take notice of the cracked dishes , ignored when familial bliss was in full swing . 
you remember bonding during the routine jogs around the block , and not necessarily huge events like graduation . 
even better are the role reversals that take place within the household . 
while giovanni and paola ( laura morante ) do check up on their daughter irene ( jasmine trinca ) , there is a sense of being on autopilot . 
not only does irene begin to take care of her own needs more , she'll make her parents breakfast in an attempt to crack their new shells to life around them . 
these scenes provide interesting portrayals of various coping mechanisms , frequently crossing a boundary as to how much you can help yourself versus others during drastic , unexpected change . 
respectfully , gender issues never enter the picture . 
self-propelled isolation is universal in terms of dealing , so moretti intelligently uses this tool to separate the family . 
though giovanni does stop paolo from discussing andrea at a party with friends , there is never a sense that he or she is more stoic , or more correct in the search to restore a sense of a balance to their lives . 
most films that broach the topic of death utilize annoying melodrama , speeches , and conciliatory issues to get the waterworks flowing . 
in contrast , the son's room captures a more realistic depiction of the effects of death on a family by graciously flowing among the five stages of mourning ( denial , depression , anger , bargaining , acceptance ) through each of its main characters . 
it's not the most engaging 100 minutes , but it is certainly easy to relate to . 
the word 'rest' in the title should be stressed since this is a movie that lacks any action scenes at all . 
what does takes place is more based on character development . 
the film starts right in the middle of the lives of four people : nick , beth , carol and sid . 
what they have done earlier is for the most part only hinted at . 
nick and beth have a relationship and have decided to move from enfield , arizona to butte , montana . 
 ( and i who thought that butte was pronounced slightly different . . . ) 
carol is nick's ex-girlfriend and beth's best friend , sid is a joint-smoking painter that comes to repaint their house before the new tenants move in . 
obviously based on a stage play , the problem with the movie is that there's a lot of things left out . 
it's not obvious that nick and beth are in love with each other , the reason why nick was fired from his job isn't mentioned . 
and why nick suddenly decide to go visit his parents remain a mystery , when he hasn't seen them for many years . 
set in a small ( fictional ? ) 
town in arizona was a good move , since this makes the film focus on the four characters and not on their surroundings . 
the name of the city is not important , this could take place anywhere with four young people in a house discussing life and the future . 
particularly impressive is bridget fonda as beth who end up in bed with sid when her fiance nick leaves her . 
not an actress that i have found interesting earlier or seen many pictures with , but i'll keep an eye on her in the future . 
interesting trivia : this was rated r in the us but rated 'barntill ? ten' in sweden wich means that anyone at any age can see it . 
airplane ! is considered among many to be the epitome of satire film-making . 
after all , it's brought to us by one of the best known satire writing/directing teams . 
even if most people don't recognize the names behind the films , they are bound to recognize the titles : airplane ! , top secret , the naked gun , and hot shots to name a few . 
but although the zucker/abrahams/zucker team was first introduced with the kentucky fried movie in 1977 , airplane ! 
remains the true cornerstone of their work , and their directorial debuts . 
in the seventies , disaster films seemed to be at an all time high . 
films like earthquake , the towering inferno , and the poseidon adventure were big hits . 
there was also a series about the disasters that can arise when traveling by plane - a series that spanned the entire decade . 
and so , in 1980 , we were introduced to a new airplane disaster film . 
this time the disaster had nothing to do with a maniacal hijacker or crashing into the ocean . 
 . 
 . 
it had to do with bad fish . 
airplane ! is the story of ted striker ( robert hays ) - an ex-fighter-pilot who has never gotten over the fact that a decision he had to make in the midst of war led to the death of six , er , seven comrades . 
unable to stop living in the past , ted's world fell apart . 
he spent his time moving from city to city without ever having a stable job , and eventually , as we begin this film , is getting dumped by his lover , flight attendant elaine dickinson ( julie hagerty ) . 
in a desperate attempt not to lose her , ted buys a ticket for the same flight elaine is working . 
unfortunately , she is unsympathetic and even criticizes ted for following her , which leaves him wallowing in self-pity . 
in the midst of it all , something happens . 
someone gets sick . 
then another . 
then another . 
soon , the whole plane is full of deathly-ill chicago-bound people . 
 . 
 . 
and when the pilots get sick ( played by peter graves , kareem abdul-jabbar , and frank ashmore ) , who will save the day ? 
 ( gee , i wonder ) 
of course the main draw here is the non-stop " whiz-bang " comedy , with a hefty dose of both visual and spoken gags . 
although i had seen this movie a few times before , i was still laughing thru the entire thing . 
the most fun character by far is the doctor , played by leslie nielsen . 
he's a dry , subtle , sterotypically straight-faced doctor that ends up saying some of the funniest lines of the film . 
in a film like this , you're not really expecting an elaborate production , so one can't complain about the amateurish quality . 
what you can complain about is the absolutely annoying johnny , played by stephen stucker . 
this character is pointless , nauseating , and very unfunny . 
i don't know why he was put in there , and i don't think anybody will find a good excuse . 
and when the film nears an end , it slows down quite a bit , almost getting old . 
you gotta give it to a movie that only runs 88 minutes and can feel two hours long . 
aside from that , airplane ! 
is really a top-notch spoof that will likely forever be known as a spoof classic . 
it would be a good choice to pop in the vcr with a group of friends , especially if they haven't seen it . 
and if they ask what the plot is , just tell 'em " it's a synopsis of the basic storyline of the film , but that's not important right now . " 
if you've seen the film , you'll understand ; - ) 
this is the movie not the perfume . 
a slow moving , stylish psychological thriller in imitation of hitchcock's vertigo . 
it is adapted from an original story by brian de palma and paul schrader , and is directed by de palma and scripted by schrader . 
set in new orleans , 1959 , it shows the wealthy michael courtland ( cliff robertson ) sitting on top of the world , celebrating his tenth wedding anniversary with a party in his mansion , as his lovely wife elizabeth ( genevi ? ve bujold ) and young daughter amy ( blackman ) , both look up to him beaming with joy . 
his real-estate development partner bob la salle ( john lithgow ) proposes a toast to him and to their prosperous business , while his high society friends give him their best wishes . 
upon retiring for the night , his daughter and wife are kidnapped in their bedroom and he is left with a ransom note to deliver $500 , 000 tomorrow or they will be killed . 
inspector brie ( stanley reyes ) comes up with a plan to put in phony money and a transmitter in the briefcase exchange , as that will lead them to the kidnappers . 
but the kidnappers burst out of the house surrounded by the police , taking the two victims with them and in the pursuing police chase , the kidnapper's car explodes and goes over the bridge , where none of the bodies were found . 
grieving the loss of his wife and child , the guilt-ridden michael builds them a tomb on the expensive land they were to develop . 
sixteen years later he goes with his partner bob on a vacation and he revisits florence , italy , where he met his wife . 
when he goes to the church where they met , he sees a young girl who looks exactly like his wife . 
her name is sandra portinari ( genevi ? ve bujold ) and she's working there restoring art that is decaying . 
he falls instantly in love with her and doesn't heed bob's warnings that she might be a gold digger and decides to take her back to new orleans and marry her . 
sandra becomes his second chance to prove his love , as he thinks he can finally put the past behind him . 
the surprises to come weren't really all that surprising , as the beauty in the storytelling is almost exclusively in the understated acting by the soul stricken cliff robertson , the emotionally impactful performance by genevi ? ve bujold , and the competent acting of john lithgow . 
it plays too much like a rehash of the master's work , to break any new ground , yet it is still thrilling in its own way . 
the farrelly brothers' third film , after dumb and dumber ( 7 . 5/10 ) and kingpin ( 8/10 ) , brings together the real-life couple of cameron diaz and matt dillon , some nasty humour , a cute dog , and a mix of love , fate and romance . 
plot : high-school nerd ted gets lucky when the cutest girl in his class asks him to the prom . 
unfortunately for ted , he accidentally gets a part of his male anatomy ( ouch ! ) 
caught in his zipper , and misses the big night . 
thirteen years later , ted still can't get mary out of his mind , and hires a private detective ( dillon ) to find her . 
once found , it turns out that mary has more than one suitor , and that's when the real fun begins . 
critique : likeable comedy with a few extremely funny scenes , some funny looking people , and a plot that won't ever put you to sleep . 
having said that , i must admit that i did like the farrellys' two previous films more than this one , but that is saying a lot , since i really did love those earlier pics . 
this one is also quite funny , but it didn't really blow me away like the others . 
then again , maybe my expectations were too high . 
then again , maybe i should shut up , and write a little more about the film , and less about my supposed subconscious reasons for liking/disliking the film . 
continuing where their other pictures left off , the farrellys' create a cutesy world of people with strange and endearing qualities , and a simple plot by which to tie them all together . 
this one also includes plenty of toilet humour , but also some borderline fun-making of the disabled and mentally-challenged . 
i must admit that i really wasn't sure whether to laugh at some points or not . 
not a good place to be . 
having said that , the scenes that did tear through the audience , and yours truly , were extremely hilarious , and went on for several minutes after the punchline . 
the laughter practically killed out the next scene for one of the best ones in the movie ( something to do with hair gel ) . 
on the negative end , i did not like the musical interludes of jonathan richman that ran through the entire picture . 
i found them quite useless , unfunny and distracting . 
also , i found that a lot of the funnier scenes had already been shown in the film's trailer . 
and of course , i never quite buy the fact that these beautiful , intelligent , single women still can't seem to find the " right guy " ( see kiss the girls ( 7/10 ) . 
i did really like all of the actors in the film , especially ben stiller , who appears to be solidifying his mark as a great comical actor with this picture and one of my favourites from 1996 , flirting with disaster ( 8/10 ) . 
i also liked matt dillon with his big teeth , and lee evans with his superb faux-sympathy british accent . 
funny stuff . 
also , make sure that you stay for the credits , because there is an entire montage of outtakes from the film that plays under a lip-synched version of " build me up buttercup " , which is really cool . 
overall , a cute comedy with a decent premise , and a few particularly hilarious scenes . 
little known facts : the farrellys big break came when they somehow got a copy of their script " dust to dust " into the hands of eddie murphy via ? murphy's neighbour . 
they only found out about murphy's interest , when they saw eddie mention the script on the david letterman show one night . 
matt dillon is a high school dropout . 
in between acting gigs , dillon has branched out into the restaurant business . 
close to home in his native new york , he co-owns both a bar called the whiskey and a swanky uptown eatery called the falls . 
cameron diaz stands 5 " 9 , started working as a model at the early age of 16 , and loves cats . 
ben stiller's father is jerry stiller . 
he played george costanza's ( jason alexander ) father on tv's " seinfeld " . 
peter farrelly has written a novel entitled " outside providence " which is currently being filmed starring alec baldwin . 
rob moran , who plays the cop in this film , also played the millionaire bowler in kingpin , and the bartender in dumb and dumber . 
he is old friends with the farrelly brothers from college , and is currently married to entertainment tonight anchor/correspondant julie moran . 
harland williams , who plays the nutty hitchhiker in this film , also played a state trooper in the farrelly's earlier dumb and dumber , and was the star of the unfortunate rocket man . 
when jim henson passed away , he left behind diverse legions of fans and a company whose ultimate success , it now seems , hinged on his input . 
jim henson productions and the creature shop are still thriving financially , but as the last two muppet films ( or that silly computer-generated monkey from lost in space ) demonstrate , the thrill and genius are gone . 
i'm not sure the dark crystal , made today , would generate from an audience of kids five to fifty the same awe-filled response . 
an all-powerful crystal has cracked , causing the leaders of the green world to split apart into two beings : the big , gentle mystics , and the vulture-like skeksis . 
the mystics send jen , a naive gelfling boy , on a mission to find the shard that cracked away , which must be reinserted into the crystal before the skeksis become eternal rulers , before the great " conjunction " of three suns . 
along the way , jen encounters and teams up with the only other gelfling alive , the rebecca demornay-like kira , an ogre-witch named aughra , who removes her eyes to look at things , and a spastic-but-friendly , tumbleweed-like animal named fizzgig . 
much of the beauty in the dark crystal , which is a simple tale ( though it does not condescend to any viewer ) , lies in its art direction and creature design . 
the puppeteering is phenomenal--observe the scenes in which jen plays his flute , or the landwalker chase--but i must stress that any thoughts of strings and hands and remote controls all but vanish in the opening moments of the picture , a delicately-narrated ( by john baddeley ) , absorbing prologue . 
the voice work in the film , by muppet regulars and irregulars , is tone-perfect . 
as well , trevor jones' score should not be discounted : it contributes to the film almost as an unseen character . 
i suppose , due to the complexity involved in executing a movie of this nature , that it couldn't be helped , but i wish the film was longer . 
jen and kira have wonderful . . . well , 
chemistry , and more scenes of them quietly conversing would have been appreciated . 
the dark crystal has a very small cult following . 
the weaker labyrinth is probably better-known , which is upsetting . 
a friend of mine related a story to me that henson was pressured into planting humans among labyrinth's creatures due to the financial failure of people-less the dark crystal . 
that film never quite found its footing ; it played like an acid-trip episode of " the muppet show " with david bowie as guest-host , borrowing from tolkien and pandering to tolkien's fan-base . 
 ( i suppose i just made labyrinth sound appetizing to a certain sector of the public . ) 
the dark crystal deserved ( and still deserves ) a bigger audience . 
it's the best kind of children's entertainment : elegant , fantastical , and courageously un-hip . 
brian henson , fortunate son , keep looking back at this , your father's masterpiece . 
bob the happy bastard's quickie review : 
the mummy 
brendan fraser's stuck in the past again , but at least this time he has something better to do than to quote sitcom lines and try to woo alicia silverstone . . . 
fraser is the lead star of the mummy , the second directorial effort from action director stephen sommers ( who also brought us the decent thrill ride that was deep rising ) . 
it's a rough adaptation of the 1932 film , and i say rough because it focuses more on special effects than on some guy in bandages , like boris karloff was engulfed in . 
but who cares , the movie has a sort of swashbuckling quality to it you can't get from , oh , say , godzilla or armageddon . 
fraser plays a soldier who gets a premonition during a battle with soldiers in an egyptian ground . 
basically , it's a little sign from the mummy buried underneath- a priest named ihmoetep who was buried alive for taking part of murdering the king and making out with his mistress . 
his plan- wake back up and wake her up also , making him invincible . 
of course , fraser returns to the site years later with a librarian ( rachel weisz ) and her brother ( john hanna ) , along with a former buddy of his ( deep rising's kevin j . o'connor ) and some " americans " . . . and 
guess what ? 
yup , ihmoetep ( arnold vosloo ) awakens and wreaks havoc . 
fire flies from the sky , flesh-eating beetles crawl about , and , well , ihmoetep's plan begins to unfold . 
ok , so it's not really all that new a story , but the way sommers tells it is entertaining enough . 
the special effects from industrial light and magic are top notch , and the acting from fraser and weisz isn't half bad either . 
the action is pretty intense ( favorite scene : the sandstorm ) and there are a few shocking scenes just to jolt you horror-loving folks as well . 
no , it's no phantom menace beater , but if you're looking for a solid warm-up to the summer movie season , you won't find a better film under wraps than the mummy . 
if this doesn't give fraser forgiveness from blast from the past and encino man , then nothing will . 
the laserman : somehow the title of writer-director-producer peter wang's film conjures up images of superheroes , like ultraman and spiderman . 
you kind of expect an adventure flick about a crime fighter who can shoot laser beams from his fingertips . 
as it turns out , the laserman _is_ about crime and about laser beams , but there aren't any superheroes . 
instead , wang's film is populated by a group of refreshingly off-beat characters living in the ultimate cultural melting pot : new york city . 
the laserman is a comic brew which celebrates ethnicity , eccentricity , and electricity . 
the film tells the bizarre story of arthur weiss ( marc hayashi ) , a chinese-american laser scientist whose life becomes incredibly hectic after he accidentally kills his lab assistant in an experiment . 
he loses his job but finds work with a mysterious company which secretly plans to use laser technology to commit dastardly deeds . 
arthur's professional life is cluttered with moral dilemmas . 
his personal life , on the other hand , is cluttered with colorful friends and quirky relatives . 
in fact , arthur is by far the blandest character in the film , despite a charismatic performance by hayashi ( the san francisco-based actor whose films include chan is missing and the karate kid ii ) . 
it's the auxiliary characters who give the laserman its unique spark . 
arthur's not-so-typical jewish mother , ruth , for example , is convinced that a chinese soul is trapped in her jewish body . 
she has dyed her red hair black , she takes herbal medicine daily , and she is perpetually cooking up strange delicacies , such as matzo balls in soy sauce--the ultimate fusion of jewish and chinese cuisine . 
veteran stage actress joan copeland takes the part and runs with it , almost stealing the movie in the process . 
she plays ruth as a driven woman , determined to overcome her genetic heritage by immersing herself in chinese culture . 
arthur's girlfriend janet ( maryann urbano ) is a kooky free-spirit who would rather meditate than copulate ; her ultimate goal is orgasm through zen meditation . 
arthur's best friend , joey ( tony leung ) , is a small time thief who hustles everything from microwave ovens to machine guns . 
joey is married to arthur's jewish sister , but he is also having an affair with a chinese immigrant who works in a whore house . 
arthur's 11-year-old son , jimmy , played by the amazingly adorable david chan , is--horror of horrors--bad at math ! 
he finds it impossible to meet his father's lofty expectations . 
the various people in arthur's life come together to form a rich tapestry of humanity . 
like wang's earlier film , a great wall ( about a san francisco family visiting relatives in china ) , the laserman revolves around cultural differences . 
every character in the film is , in some way or another , trying to find his identity--struggling to negotiate a balance between his native culture and the american way . 
the movie also offers a provocative look at technology . 
wang appears in the movie as lieutenant lu , a detective who is fed up with machines , even though he relies on them to do his job . 
the film views technology with a wary eye , acknowledging its necessity while at the same time realizing its potential dangers . 
wang raises the time-honored question of whether scientists should be held responsible for their inventions . 
was einstein responsible for the a-bomb ? 
is arthur weiss responsible for his lasers ? 
the movie pits spirituality against technology , man against machine , and the result is a draw . 
according to the film , technology has its place , but we must employ it with great forethought and caution . 
ironically , by its very nature , the laserman is a triumph of technology--the technology of filmmaking . 
wang's direction is exquisite , especially during the tense finale in which the director frantically cross-cuts between the various subplots , perhaps in homage to d . w . 
griffith . 
cinematographer ernest dickerson , who has worked on all of spike lee's films , gives the laserman a distinctive , artistic look . 
mason daring's score , which includes a send-up of bach , is right on target . 
the laserman is an ambitious endeavor , which is to be applauded , but it's sometimes ambitious to a fault . 
wang serves up so many slices of life in the film that it's hard to digest them all . 
for instance , one character ( arthur's sister ) has negligible screen time , and consequently we just don't care about her marital problems . 
in weaving his web , wang has included a few too many strands . 
overall , however , the laserman is a charmingly eclectic concoction . 
on the surface , the film is a light and bouncy comedy-thriller , overflowing with whimsical humor and visual style . 
the heavier issues emerge only when you take a deeper look at the film . 
you can ponder the moral questions or you can just sit back and enjoy the absurdity of life in china town . 
imagine this . 
you're given a sword and a shield and very basic , minimal training . 
a man you don't know tells you that this will be the last day that you will live . 
you are thrown into an arena with thousands of spectators wanting to see you die . 
you frantically monitor several closed doors which , in seconds , will release vicious enemies prepared to destroy you . 
you watch as the innocent friends you made in the last few days are murdered in cold blood . 
if you are lucky enough to survive this chaos thrown at you , you know you're going to have to do it all over again tomorrow . 
eventually know matter how strong or skilled you are , you're going to die . 
this is the life of a gladiator . 
you'll never have to be a gladiator and after seeing ridley scott's powerful gladiator , you'll be thankful for that . 
with his new film , scott has returned cinema to the fascinating age of the ancient roman empire . 
and like those preceding it , spartacus and ben hur , gladiator has nearly everything going for it - a strong lead actor , a wonderful supporting cast , eye-catching special effects , and a great script . 
since the two aforementioned films came out before the prime target viewers of gladiator ( teenagers to thirty-year-old males ) were around , a whole new genre may just be reborn and revisited . 
>from a weak beginning , the film starts off extremely gloomy and inauspicious . 
rome's best general maximus ( russell crowe ) , who has helped the empire conquer nearly everywhere they have attempted , is currently ( in the year 180 a . d . that is ) waging a war against germania . 
scott shoots the gory battle in an awkward style , similar to that of saving private ryan but much less effective . 
it's blurry , in slow motion , and the sound is muted . 
as soon as this artistic method began , it was hard to tell what was what and who was who . 
it's a good thing scott stops this after the first twenty minutes or else gladiator would have been torture to watch . 
instead , the general swears he will get out after this battle . 
he wants to go back to his family and his crops , he wants a quiet life . 
but , unexpectedly , he gets anything but that . 
the dying emperor of rome , marcus aurelius ( richard harris ) , decides to have maximus appointed new emperor of rome once he dies . 
he asks maximus to restore the republic by giving more power to the senators . 
all of this does not go well for aurelius' son , commodus ( joaquin phoenix ) who was expecting his father to name him the new emperor . 
jealous and upset , commodus kills his own father , names himself emperor , kills maximus' wife and son , and attempts to kill maximus . 
but maximus is able to escape his own death and vows to kill commodus and fulfill marcus aurelius' wishes . 
now a slave , the only way he can win his own freedom and complete his goal is to become a winning gladiator , who eventually are released for their success . 
a story of betrayal and promises , gladiator is more than just a mindless action flick . 
you actually care about the characters , sometimes even the evil villain commodus , who is just a young man as determined to make rome one way as maximus is determined to make it the other way . 
phoenix plays his character brilliantly . 
think of commodus as the percy wetmore ( of pant-wetter the green mile ) of the roman empire - a whiny , sleazy , " respect-me-because-my-father-was-a-good-man " brat who hates when he's not the center of attention . 
every scene we see commodus , he's either crying or he looks like he has just been crying . 
phoenix has definitely matured as an actor since to die for , and gladiator shows he's more than just river's little brother . 
crowe is also excellent as the film's grisly-faced hero . 
maximus is one of the few characters in recent cinema who actually has emotions . 
this guy actually acts like a anyone in his situation would act , he's no invincible superhero who only blurts out one-liners , he ( believe it or not ) acts like a human being ! 
the rest of the cast , including richard harris , djimon hounsou , walter hill , derek jacobi , and connie nielsen are also first rate . 
ridley scott , using outstanding special effects , has brilliantly recreated the roman coliseum , the loudness of the roman mob , and the city of rome in general . 
the visuals are breathtaking and voluminous , like a cleopatra of the year 2000 . 
the costuming is also wonderful from the detailed shields and armor to the exquisite dress of the upper-class politicians . 
gladiator is another movie you have to see on the big screen to get the most out of the experience . 
along with u-571 , action fans should have plenty to see in theaters this week and should expect much more excitement to come this summer of 2000 . 
so here is the second of 1999's remakes of classic horror movies . 
the first was the dumb , pathetic but ok remake of the classic 'the haunting' . 
now comes the highly awaited remake of house on haunted hill . 
the classic which starred vincent price as a man who pays a group of people 100 , 000 to stay in his house . 
if they survive the night they get the money . 
if not well you get the jurisdiction . 
having not yet seen the film ( dvd on its way ) i wasn't sure if i would really like the remake . 
but sure enough it comes through and has a great storyline to fall back on . 
geoffrey rush ( in a fantastic role with an incredible performance ) is steven price , the owner of an amusement park destined to scare the wits out of people . 
his wife evelyn price is throwing a party with her friends . 
steven dismays at the idea and makes his own list . 
somehow someone , or something changes that list and five other people are invited to the party . 
eddie ( taye diggs ) an ex-baseball player , sarah ( ali carter ) an ex-assistant who can re-wire anything , melissa ( brigette wilson ) a talk-show host in sorts , dr . blackburn ( peter ghallager ) , and watson ( chris kattan ) a smart-mouthed humorist in ways . 
what he is gonna do is pay these five people 1 , 000 , 000 dollars if they can survive through the night . 
if they can they get the money , if not well they don't . 
the house on haunted hill used to be an insane asylum . 
years before mental patients broke out and killed the dr . there , forcing him to lock the place up because if he died , so did they . 
everyone who was in there burned to death . 
now it is steven price's home and he is throwing this party for these five people . 
what starts out as a seemingly normal night , turns into a horrifying , blood splattering night . 
the deep dark secrets of what really happened in that asylum and why those guests are actually there are revealed . 
one-by-one the people start to disappear . 
conspiracies start to turn up , and steven price finds out that his house may be alive after all . 
the people find rooms , which once held mental patients . 
rooms which once had people dying . 
rooms which may still contain these people . 
now these five people must try and survive the night and try and survive the house , and they must survive each other with terrorfying results . 
since i officially haven't seen the original i can't say which is better . 
i can say however i liked this movie . 
geoffrey rush gives a one in a million performance as the rich steven price , and does a great job doing a vincent price role . 
famke jansen as his wife was great and even kind of eerie at times . 
ali carter and taye diggs sort of become the main characters and ali carter who debuted in varsity blues gives a fantastic performance here as does taye diggs . 
chris kattan gives us great comic relief and the movie contains a lot of comical lines . 
peter ghallager and brigette wilson were great as well and gave commanding performances as potential victims . 
the plot was well conceived and was very absorbing . 
the movie has atmosphere the whole way through that is disturbing and creepy , and even sometimes downright scary . 
i found even the opening credits to me a little ominous . 
one thing i knew not to expect was a 'haunting' type movie with special effects galore . 
even though it had fantastic gore and special effects , the movie has only a 19 million dollar budget , which doesn's show all the way through but you can tell . 
the movie was written well , and it's only major flaw is the under-developed characters and plot holes that we are left with . 
the ending is quite clever and some may not even get it . 
i must say house on haunted hill was a surprise . 
i was expecting another haunting with special effects , no scares and a dumb ending . 
instead i found a good halloween movie with gore , scares and great acting . 
house on haunted hill is one of those movies you really can't take seriously . 
though it is a well-made movie with a good storyline it still has some flaws . 
but besides that the movie is fun , smart and scary and makes us wonder why remakes like this can't be made all the time ! 
apollo 13 is simply one of the most dramatic film this summer ( apart from swashbuckling braveheart ) . 
director ( and former actor ) ron howard ( splash , backdraft , far & away ) , most noted for his dramatic film making , displays again his brilliance in creating drama and suspense in apollo 13 . 
being the second largest box office hit in the us this summer ( with more than us$150 million in the states alone ) , this film is his most successful effort yet . 
perhaps one of the most appealing feature of this film is the pool of talented actors such as tom hanks ( gump himself ) , kevin bacon ( footloose , tremors , a few good men etc . ) , gary sinise ( forrest gump ) , bill paxton ( aliens , true lies , boxing helena ) and ed harris ( the abyss , just cause ) . . 
all of whom gave good performances in their respective roles . 
apollo 13 was the second worst accident ever to occur in the history of us spaceflight ( the worst being the challenger accident ) . 
jim lovell ( hanks ) , the mission commander , together with his crew , fred haise ( paxton ) and last minute replacement tom swigert ( bacon ) are put to the ultimate test when part of their command module explodes on the third day of the mission , more than three quarters way to the moon . 
suspense and drama ensue as the three men are left in space with their spaceship out of control and the problem of surviving the journey home . . . 
if they ever reach it . 
ed harris and gary sinise who play , respectively , the man in charge of the entire mission control and the astronaut who was supposed to fly but was diagnosed with measles , both delve into their roles superbly . 
audiences are shown the chaotic and worrisome state of the entire ground control crew , as they frantically attempt to come up with ideas on how to save the astronauts from hurtling into space . 
also , there are quite a number of real news footages which were broadcast during the accident which took the entire us nation into 5 days of drama in 1970 . 
the special effects by digital domain are up to standard and the music suits the suspense and drama very well , thanks to film-music maestro james horner . 
watch out for the launching sequence , it is simply one of the most breathtaking scenes of the film . 
a bad point though : apollo 13 features much technical jargon and many physics concepts in its script . 
those who consider themselves `scientifically illiterate' might have a slight problem understanding what caused this and what caused that during the course of the show . 
this is however , just a minor point , just forget all those technical bullshit and immerse yourselves into the drama and suspense throughout the film . 
you should enjoy it . 
in _daylight_ , sylvester stallone breaks no new ground , cinematically speaking , but he covers familiar territory quite well . 
yesterday , as i was going about my business in the university bookstore , i noticed this stand with these _daylight_ movie posters on it . 
i had never heard of the movie , so i stopped by to check it out . 
it turned out that they were giving away free passes to the movie for people who had or applied for the credit card they were offering . 
so , i shrugged , thought , " hey , they probably won't give me the card anyway , and i could always use a free movie , " so i signed up . 
all in all , i don't think i got that bad of a deal , either . 
rob cohen , who has previously brought us such films as _dragon : the bruce lee story_ and , more recently , _dragonheart_ ( gee , i wonder if he likes dragons for some reason ? 
you think ? ) , now brings us a very nicely executed disaster picture , with fx by industrial light and magic , about the after-effects of an explosion that collapses a busy tunnel between new york and new jersey . 
sylvester stallone plays kit latura , who is essentially a carbon copy of the character he played in _cliffhanger_ : a paramedic on the outs because he made a mistake that got people killed . 
when the crisis hits , he is in the right place at the right time and takes it upon himself to go in and get everybody out . 
there are other similarities to _cliffhanger_ , too ; perhaps the only real difference is that _cliffhanger_ had a villain , where _daylight_'s bad guy is mother nature . 
in fact , had the two movies been made in hong kong , this might have been titled _cliffhanger ii_--it bears the same relationship to that film that most hk film " sequels " do to their predecessors . 
the first half-hour of _daylight_ is setup . 
subplots are woven , and the mechanism of the disaster is assembled . 
we meet all the important people . . . toxic waste disposal truck drivers ; a young , frustrated , jilted , rejected playwright ; a family struggling to stay together ; an older couple and their dog ; a truckload of prisoners ; an ad agency executive ; a tunnel police officer ; stallone ; and others . 
we watch the trucks trundle toward their destination ; we watch stallone and so many others driving toward the tunnel for their various reasons . 
and then , thirty minutes into the film , _boom_ . 
and it's a big one . 
>from there on in , it's sly stallone to the rescue . 
and rescue he does , enduring batterings , beatings , falls , repeated immersion in 34-degree water , explosions , mud , rats , and constant setbacks , before going on to save the day , sly-style . 
again . . . there's 
nothing new here . 
and yet there doesn't need to be . 
the fun of _daylight_ is not in the story but in the execution . 
the special-effects are first-rate , thanks to industrial light and magic , and the ensemble cast works well together . 
once the film hits its stride , it carries the viewer right along to the finish , with very few jars along the way . 
this review is copyright 1996 by christopher e . meadows . 
permission granted for distribution through rec . arts . movies . reviews and all associated archival . 
permission granted for free redistribution via cyberspace as long as this message remains attached . 
all other rights reserved to the author . 
perhaps the most dramatic changes in the motion picture industry in this decade have to do with special effects . 
there is no question that action-adventure and science-fiction/action movies are now judged by the character of their light and noise . 
whereas classic adventure pics of the last twenty years , such as raiders of the lost ark , were made in grand traditional fashion ; contemporary films like jurassic park are multimillion-dollar creations of computer technology . 
the latest in this visually awesome series of movies , the wachowski brothers' the matrix , is a testament to the skilled use of special effects and its ability to enhance a movie's story . 
unlike many sci-fi movies which promote themselves as effects-heavy blockbusters but fail to deliver on that promise , the matrix is a carefully constructed special effects event . 
it runs 135 minutes in length and employs a countless number of computerized tricks which range from gimmick to grandiose , and the quality of the effects remains constant throughout the film's length . 
contrary to popular trend , the matrix commits itself to being a spectacle of light and sound . 
in this regard , the movie is something like a card sharp . 
with its flashy mass stripped away , the matrix would be quite shallow and untalented . 
the script is characteristically weak , and the dialogue suffers in lieu of a far more innovative visual approach . 
but , like the card sharp , the matrix wows its audience to such a high degree that actual content is irrelevent . 
the viewers don't care about what the matrix has to say as long as the next special effects sequence is right around the corner . 
and right around the corner they usually are , for the script tells a fast-paced , albeit frequently revisited story . 
as the movie explains , the world as we know it is nothing but an elaborate computer program constructed by an artificial intelligence for the purpose of placating mankind . 
billions of human beings lie in this dormant state while the intelligence -- the matrix -- " farms " our life energy . 
only a select group of individuals knows of the " real " world , and a particularly ingenious squad of these rebels is led by ultra-cool morpheus ( laurence fishburne ) . 
morpheus and his crew recruit a computer expert named neo ( keanu reeves ) , believing he is a prophesied individual who will help them overthrow the matrix and return peace to earth . 
the cast plays out this story in stylish fashion . 
the set design is very dynamic , running the gambit between cramped and dreary to bright and airy . 
the costumes , as well as the actors who wear them , add to the roles . 
for instance , the manifested antagonists in the movie , a group of " agents " created by the matrix in its computer program , all dress in matching secret servicewear ; the rebel fighters , on the other hand , dress in rich hues of leather . 
the casting cannot be criticized , for the typically stoic reeves isn't required to say much and laurence fishburne gets plenty of time to be so damn cool . 
supports in carrie-anne moss , joe pantoliano , and hugo weaving are all effectual . 
one of the best comparisons to thw matrix is last year's science fiction masterpiece dark city , particularly if one ponders how this same premise would've worked from a different approach . 
the alex proyas film was far more dark and introspective , requiring a bit of thought before themes became clear ; here , the wachowski brothers have managed to construct a thrill-ride motion picture with little abandon and much noise . 
the better picture between the two depends on the viewer , but the key to the success of the matrix is that the noise did not get in the way of the fun . 
let me open this one with a confession : i love cop movies . 
i adore them with such an unwavering , near foolish passion that i was actually one of the first in line to see 1998's one tough cop starring the smirkiest of the baldwin brothers , steven . 
was it any good ? 
well , just about as good as baldwin's steven seagal impression ( for those i've confused the answer is a resounding no ! ) . 
now let me clarify , i don't love just any cop movie ; i'm not too keen on the smug buddy cop flicks that were so in vogue in the 80's and now slowly ( gulp ) returning thanks to jackie chan and chris tucker . 
i'm partial to those gritty , earthy cop dramas like serpico , donnie brasco , and the french connection . 
problem is these films come along just about as often as george w . bush makes a cogent point so whenever a " true " cop movie does hit multiplexes , i come running towards it like an eager puppy ? ? ? and inevitably i leave , head bowed , tripping over my squiggly tail . 
so what is it about cop movies that transform me into a moron willing to shell out $7 . 50 for a movie called one tough cop ( which actually sounds a lot like a wiseguy spin-off , no ? ) ? 
truth is i'm a sucker for those barren streets , that gritty , graffiti strewn modernist jungle where dangerous criminals lurk and cops , like modern day knights , must shield us from their iniquitous clutches . 
yes it's all very corny and awfully boys clubish , which , i'm guessing , is precisely where these feelings come from . 
as little tots us boys are brought up to create our own wars with gi joe's , enact cops and robbers or cowboy and indian fantasies , etc . the best gritty cop films tap into those gleeful adolescent fantasies , and heighten them , turning it all into an existential nightmare of thin moral lines and psychological chaos . 
as an adult my tastes haven't changed all that drastically ; sure i can get a cerebral high from the emotional complexities of a krzysztof kieslowski film , but i still delight at the promise a " guy " film could potentially bring . 
now what if it's the cops who're the corrupt ones ? 
ooh that one really gets me going , these protectors using all that at their service , taking advantage of others for their own gain . 
throw a courtroom drama ( yech ! ) 
into the pot and you have the tremendously absorbing sidney lumet film prince of the city . 
how absorbing is prince of the city , you ask ? 
so damn absorbing that when the film shifts from gritty undercover cop drama to courtroom drama ( a sub-genre i loath the way kristy swanson must loath sarah michelle gellar ) i remained completely and utterly involved . 
the film stars treat williams , who gives the kind of performance that should have skyrocketed his career up to the level that brad pitt currently resides at . 
since i was hatched a mere two years prior to the release of prince of the city , i cannot provide an answer as to why it didn't . 
 ( though judging from his recent roles in tripe like deep rising and dead heat i would guess that it probably has something to do with quite a few bad career moves ) . 
like mickey rourke and eric roberts ( both of whom are currently doing time in direct to video purgatory ) williams is a talented leading man who didn't make it to where he should have . 
 ( if there was any justice in this dog gone world keanu reeves would be the one banished to direct to video hell ) . 
here , the actor is given a role not all that dissimilar from al pacino's in serpico ( also directed by lumet ) . 
williams plays danny ciello , a member of an elite squad of police officers who take down drug dealers on the gritty pre-juliani streets of new york . 
they work without uniforms or hours much like paid vigilantes . 
and that analogy is more than apt seeing as how the bunch are kinda sorta forced into using corrupt means to get the job done . 
the squad relies entirely on informants ( low level junkies ) to gain access to the big wigs , and in order to obtain the info they seek , they sometimes have to provide the junkies with the junk of their choice . 
danny has done this , and though he's a fairly honorable guy , who took the job in order to do good , his intentions have gotten a bit skewed along the way . 
he seeks redemption and concludes that the best way to go about getting it is by talking to internal affairs who then convince him to go undercover as a " double agent " . 
he does so with one condition : he will not rat on his partners . 
right away we know that that is exactly what he'll have to do . 
and watching the movie build to that is thrilling in the way that any great character driven story can be . 
undercover cop films are almost innately exciting , even the kind that pull out all the cliches ( like in too deep ) . 
how can one not be moved by the issues of betrayal , ambiguity , and the danger in putting oneself in such a risky position ? 
prince of the city takes all this and charges it with a perceptive , hard boiled script and taut unintrusive direction by old pro sidney lumet , as well as a handful of intense performances , most notably by treat . 
lumet's greatest contribution to the movie is how he lays back , and lets the camera soak up the action . 
his scenes transition rapidly from one to the next building layers of tension , and he rarely holds for reaction shots , instead he clicks away at precisely the moment a character stops yakking . 
lumet's worst tendency is one that many film makers ( especially oliver stone ) tend to overuse : he relies a little too heavily on actors shouting their lines at each other presumably in order to ratchet up the tension . 
this isn't as much a problem here as it was in night falls on manhattan , lumet's most recent cop \ lawyer endeavor , a movie that nearly gave me an ulcer from just watching . 
though of late lumet has made several really awful career choices ( maybe he and treat should get together for a drink or something ) , the most recent a completely unnecessary remake of gloria , here he was on , sustaining tension in a film that runs for 167 minutes with not one dull spot . 
some of the formula pictures i like the best are the most simplistic . 
hollywood often forgets how easy it is to make these kinds of pictures even tolerable . 
of course cop movies aren't popular anymore ( yes buddy cop flicks are popular but those are more like extended sitcoms with gunfire amid the punch lines ) , but just look at the average hollywood action movies , flicks so bloated and full of unnecessary fat like the boring love interest that serves no purpose other than to stall the action and demonstrate that our hero isn't gay , the lame comic relief character who's never funny , and on and on . 
for all its moral ambiguities prince of the city is a back to the basics cop \ courtroom drama that leaves out all the crap and really thrills . 
it focuses completely on its story , and its characters all of whom are completely believable from the cops to the lawyers to the junkies . 
there's a great scene early on where an irate williams shouts at an ia officer and looks as if he's about to go into one of those corny braveheart inspirational speeches , but instead he breaks down in front of the cop and begins sobbing . 
this is a scene that would never make it into a michael bay film ( even though bruce willis sacrifices his life at the end of armageddon , not one damn tear ) it would be cut out because the director would say oh that makes him too human , excuse me , weak . 
in the very next scene danny speaks in a hushed raspiness , straining to get the words out . 
he's lost his voice . 
does that little itty bitty detail matter ? 
maybe not to most , but it sure made my night . 
and in a sprawling epic of corruption , greed , betrayal and violence it's nice to see that someone is paying attention to the little things . 
carla gugino graduates from high school and instead of staying in her small farming town , she goes to college in california . 
there she meets the residential advisor pauly shore , who is a city boy . 
when gugino goes back home for thanksgiving , she brings shore with her , and her parents ( lane smith and cindy pickett ) are less than thrilled . 
dan gauthier , gugino's boyfriend from high school , proposes to gugino . 
gugino isn't ready for anything like this so she makes up the story that she is engaged to shore . 
she and shore have to make it look like they are engaged while her parents try to make it end . 
forget jurassic park , cliffhanger , the firm and last action hero , son-in-law is the film to see this summer . 
son-in-law is a great romantic comedy that should please the viewers , especially fans of the wiez . 
when son-in-law is long gone and forgotten , the blockbuster summer films will still be playing and you will have a chance to see them then . 
this film could also make great video fare for those that are leery of spending seven dollars on it . 
nothing will be lost by watching it on a television screen . 
although the basic story line has been done many , many times before , the film is still fun to watch . 
the laughs are plentiful , especially when the wiez is around . 
the way some of the jokes are done are new , even though some of the jokes are old . 
there are also several new jokes that , at least , i haven't seen before . 
still , when presented right , even old material can be funny still . 
this film is just basically a light comedy that is great to see if you are in the right mood that doesn't contain much violence or any nudity that is definitely worth full ticket price . 
the cast for this film does an excellent job . 
pauly shore ( encino man ) is the star attraction of this film . 
he is great , and knows how to entertain the audience . 
pauly shore just seems to take over the entire screen when he is on with expressions and comments that are hilarious . 
this film would definitely not have been as good with anyone else in this role . 
carla gugino does a very good job as the farm girl gone city girl . 
she makes her character believable , on some levels , yet interesting at the same time . 
the person who played the grandfather ( mason adams , i believe ) also does a great job . 
the way he delivered his lines kept me laughing throughout the time that he was on the screen . 
patrick renna , who played gugino's little brother , was a little annoying , but no where as near as macaulay culkin , and for only part of the time , so i can forgive him . 
tiffani-amber thiessen ( a killer among friends , " saved by the bell " ) does a reasonably good job for the time that she is on screen . 
she shows that she may have a potential in movies if she can get out of the corny young adults programming on television . 
she wasn't given overly much to do in the film , but what she had , she does a good job with . 
the soldiers of three kings have taken their cue from movies about vietnam . 
 ( fitting , since the media-saturated gulf war became a pop entertainment . ) 
while driving through a long , flat iraqi desert ( in a humvee with a bart simpson hood ornament ) , one of the men under special forces sgt . 
maj . archie gates' ( who's steering ) command requests a beach boys tune . 
these men want their apocalypse now moment , only instead of surfing , they bop to the music and skeet shoot out the back of the vehicle , armed with automatic rifles . 
our three kings ( okay , four ) are good fighters , but they don't necessarily take operation desert storm seriously-it's a reprieve from their hellish day jobs . 
they are gates , new father sgt . 
troy barlow ( wahlberg ) , sgt . 
chief elgin ( cube ) , and pvt . 
conrad vig ( music video director jonze ) . 
at story's start , president bush has declared a ceasefire , and american troops are tying up loose ends . 
barlow , elgin , and vig discover during a round up of iraqi captives an " ass-map " that points to a bunker filled with gold bullion . 
gates leaves his jurisdiction to commandeer the situation ; he proposes-demands-that barlow , elgin , and vig join him on a treasure hunt . 
ditching his escort , a relentless reporter named adriana cruz ( nora dunn ) , is easy . 
so is finding the treasure , until the four men realize the magnitude of discord still breathing in iraq : saddam's men are threatening the dictator's detractors ( citizens of his own country ) with violence . 
when gates and company arrive at the bunker with a stolen truck , ready to loot , the unarmed rebels want help . 
 ( bush encouraged them to rise up against the government , but provided no military support for such cause . ) 
gates convinces the vault's guards that this is a post-war mission , and even accepts their assistance in loading the truck . 
the situation could go off without a hitch : the former enemies bear no grudges . 
but the money hungry gates has a conscience , and when one female bystander is shot by a sadistic grunt before these americans have left the scene , he orders barlow , elgin and vig to open fire on the surrounding arab forces . 
the result : barlow is kidnapped , and the filmmakers imply that these would-be kings are seeing more action than they ever did during wartime . 
barlow is eventually locked in a dank room and wired up to a shocking device . 
his interrogator lost his family to the bombs , and he wants barlow to imagine the demise of his own wife and child . 
 ( he does , in chilling , lasting images . ) 
i liked these scenes best , because the political became personal . 
it's one thing to champion the plight of thousands ; it's another to see a ceiling cave in atop a baby in a crib . 
russell has shocked us before : his first film , spanking the monkey , is about a young man's affair with his bedridden mother . 
 ( it's great . ) 
his second , flirting with disaster , features a character who has an armpit fetish . 
one could argue that it's easier to make an audience react to such sexual deviance than explosions , though ; russell disturbs us in three kings by being no-nonsense about the violence . 
when barlow conjures the detonation of his suburban home , russell mutes the sound-we're paying attention to the debris instead of thx bombast . 
three kings is russell's first visually arresting picture . 
stylistically , it stands apart from other war dramas . 
newton thomas sigel's cinematography of the exteriors is overexposed and extremely grainy , which is , of course , entirely appropriate . 
one practically breaks out in sweat staring at the screen . 
 ( a friend enthusiastically added , " it's like having sand in your eyes . " ) 
this also helps to blur the fact that the actual locations are far removed from the persian gulf facade . 
 ( three kings was shot in arizona , california , and mexico . ) 
russell throws plenty at sigel's camera for it to observe-as was the case with russell's previous efforts , the most absurd moments are also the film's most realistic , even the most poignant . 
 ( we watch a bullet puncture an organ from the inside . ) 
if anything , three kings settles down and stops surprising us . 
its climax is pure hollywood , no doubt the answer to why a major studio felt comfortable getting into bed with the indie-minded russell . 
subsequently , the characters become more cartoonish-barlow's post-torture revelry felt phony , and chief , a strong presence in the first third , fails to escape the god-fearing-ultra-serious-anti-racist-black-man-of-power clich ? -so much for cube avoiding token status . 
 ( the arab players , on the other hand , duck stereotype . ) 
clooney , too , transforms into a blandly heroic protestor-marching with the rebels , i waited for him to shout , " let my people go ! " 
hayseed vig notwithstanding , the protagonists are very intelligent , and self-serving , too ; i had a glimmer of hope , based on russell's filmography , that our antiheroes would revert to their greedy selves at some juncture . 
 ( it's not spoiling much to write that . ) 
then again , what historical importance would such nastiness serve ? 
 ( there's already enough cynicism in the film's mentioning of kuwait's oil-infested waters . ) 
russell offers the masses a primer on the oft-dismissed gulf conflict , and pulled off a neat trick : a war tale full of battles that takes place after a truce has been declared . 
if he set out to make something socially/culturally/politically/globally significant , he succeeded . 
with flair . 
bill condon's " gods and monsters " is a fascinating look into the last days in the life of gay director james whale ( ian mckellan ) , who made the horror classics " frankenstein " and " bride of frankenstein . " 
since i was unfamiliar of whale prior to viewing the film , there is no way to know how accurate the film is , but i suspect that much of it only came from whale's inner fantasies and hallucinations . 
whale , who fought in wwi and then went on to become known for his work on horror pictures , decided fifteen years before his death at age 67 to quit filmmaking once a homosexual scandal broke out involving him . 
as the film tells it , during the end of his life , whale , at his large home in l . a . , became infatuated with the tall , handsome , and much younger man , clayton boone ( brendan fraser ) , who was working as the gardener at his home . 
james whale , we learn quickly was , what many people refer to him as in the film , " a dirty old man . " 
in one of the opening scenes , a young film enthusiast visits whale's home to interview him and whale agrees , on one condition : for every question he answers , the young man must take off an article of clothing . 
because of this episode , we know exactly what it is whale wants when he asks clayton to pose for him for a painting , later making the excuse that his bright , white shirt is disracting only so he will take it off . 
clayon agrees , and doesn't really think much of this , much to the warnings of his friends , becoming more and more intrigued in the stories whale tells him about his past . 
certainly , the relationship between whale and boone is headed for a downfall , since whale starts to grow a deep love for this young man , even though boone is not gay , and whale himself realizes he is nearing the conclusion to his life , as he begins to seldom suffer mild strokes and moments of true catharsis . 
 " gods and monsters " is an intimate and seemingly respectful portrait of a director who was forced to become somewhat of an outcast , due to his sexual preference , and never got the recognition he would have liked , since he longed to be referred to as a " motion picture director , " rather than a " horror director . " 
and in one heartbreaking scene , he attends a party with boone being his guest , held by director george cuckor , and finds that many of the other attendees do not recognize him anymore . 
it is evident that whale's first love in his life was making movies , and when his career ultimately fell apart , so did his passion in life . 
as played brilliantly by ian mckellen , james whale comes off as a sad , but dignified man , and a person who was not afraid to stand out from others , just as long as he knew he was being true to himself . 
he never hid the fact that he was gay , however , even if it meant threatening his filmmaking profession , and it was this unblinking honesty that made him a great person . 
through the complicated relationship that develops between whale and boone , boone , of course , only things of whale as a possible friend or someone he can talk to , while it means so much more to whale , who sees boone as sort of his salvation in life . 
although boone is only in a dead-end job as a gardener of people's homes , whale views him as the ideal man , not only one that is good-looking , even though it is this attraction that first begins his feelings , but one that will actually listen to him . 
since whale lives with only his loyal , but disapproving maid ( touchingly portrayed by lynn redgrave ) , it is boone that whale can talk to in his ultimate reclusion from the world , and the only reason whale finally decides to attend the gathering of george cuckor . 
although an extremely fine and mature picture , a few small elements hold the film back from ultimate greatness . 
it is appreciated that the film does not pull for any obvious or overly dramatic story developments , but it is a little thin , and the structuring of the " on-again-off-again " friendship at the film's center is fairly predictable . 
we know early on where these two characters are headed , and we can guess that there will be a final confrontation between the two as the tension slowly builds . 
in lesser hands , this set-up might have felt too calculated , but it is not in the surprisingly deft treatment and writing that helps the film to be much more than this . 
also , a subplot is briefly brought up between clayton and a waitress working at a bar ( effectively played by lolita davidovich ) , but abruptly dropped and never brought up again . 
if the film was not going to follow up on this side story , then it , perhaps , should have been taken out altogether . 
 " gods and monsters " is a heartfelt and intelligent motion picture , impressively directed by bill condon , who , i sense , relates to or fully understands the meaning behind the curious relationship between whale and boone . 
the film also plays as a tribute to a fine man who met an untimely end . 
walking away from " gods and monsters , " it was ian mckellen's marvelous and astounding performance that left the most impression on me , and i doubt there could have been anyone who could have stepped into the role more fully and believably . 
it is a sad testament when a person's true talent and love is unfairly taken away from them , based on the scrutinization and judgement of their personal life , which , ironically enough , is no one else's business in the first place . 
i must admit that i was a tad skeptical of " good will hunting " , based both on the previews and the first fifteen minutes of the film , in which the main character will hunting ( matt damon ) , an mit janitor in his early twenties , is discovered to be an einstein-level closet genius when he solves two extraordinarily difficult math problems overnight . 
the only problem is that will is a tough street kid who's had his share of run-ins with the law , and before long he's being hauled in for assault after a parking lot fight . 
professor lambeau ( stellan skarsgard ) , who had brought up the math problems in his lectures , tracks him down and strikes a deal with the police : will is to be released , provided he works with lambeau on his math research regularly and attends therapy sessions . 
this sounds like the formula for mildly charming fluff , but " good will hunting " rises above its fairly mundane premise to deliver a poignant and clever drama . 
a conflict gradually emerges between lambeau and will's therapist sean mcguire ( robin williams ) - lambeau wants to get will to use his brain , while sean wants him to listen to his heart , both of which he has been largely neglecting . 
will finds that the former is much easier than the latter , so much so , in fact , that he gets bored with it and grows increasingly resistant to lambeau's attempts to recruit him into the academic lifestyle . 
he also has his share of problems with his girlfriend skylar ( minnie driver ) , an mit student who is moving to california at the end of the school year and would like a reluctant will to come with her . 
what makes " good will hunting " work so well , aside from the strong performances ( especially from damon and williams ) , is the depth of characterization and the representation of the conflicts in will's life . 
the script's sympathies seem to lie more with sean mcguire than with lambeau , but neither of them is presented as completely right or wrong . 
lambeau , while he may seem a little cold at times , is still written well enough that we like him as a character even when we're not sure if we like what he has to say . 
and sean , for all his warm-heartedness , has , as lambeau and later will point out , not lived up to his full intellectual potential either ; the therapy sessions turn out to be just as revelatory for sean as they do for will . 
will's reaction to this situation , and the way in which he slowly becomes more receptive to skylar and to sean , is presented in a believable fashion and in a way that forces the audience to consider all the characters' opinions , rather than setting up an obvious " right " and " wrong " side and beating them over the head with it . 
for a film with such an extraordinary character , " good will hunting " presents itself as remarkably ordinary ; it achieves the difficult task of making the next albert einstein into an everyman , a character to whom the audience can easily relate and who must make choices similar to those that almost everyone faces at one time or another . 
this film gives us real drama when it so easily could have given us merely melodrama , by having the government kidnap will to use him in covert spy missions or introducing some other equally far-fetched situation . 
 " good will hunting " also has its share of fun humor , such as when will , in an early therapy session , pretends to be hypnotized and smoothly parodies the alien abduction scenarios that have become so well known in popular culture . 
and in the one scene in which government agents do in fact appear , will blows them off with a hilariously scathing accusation of human rights violations in africa . 
will's relationship with his friends , most notably chucky ( ben affleck ) , is usually rather amusing , if somewhat crude ( the film has 100+ uses of the 'f' word , which was most likely the reason for its r-rating ) , and lends itself well to the development of will's character . 
add all this to the fact that " good will hunting " even manages to pull off an uplifting happy ending without getting excessively sentimental , and you might be wondering why i haven't given this film four stars . 
well , for one thing , no matter how well damon and affleck , who wrote the screenplay , and director gus van sant pull it off , the story is still rather contrived and not particularly original . 
there are also a few scenes that did feel a bit formulaic , including one that was supposed to be emotional but really just seemed like the obligatory crying scene for any movie involving therapy sessions . 
still , " good will hunting " takes its premise a lot farther than i thought it would , and is definitely one of the better personal dramas i have seen in the last few years , and as of right now it stands as one of the top five on my list of '97 films . 
a cinematic version of one of john irving's novels is always cause for celebration even if , as in the case of " simon birch , " the treatment is merely " suggested by , " rather than strictly based on , the book . 
suggested means that irving , author of the acclaimed " the world according to garp , " sold the rights to his novel " a prayer for owen meany " to the disney machine for $1 million , but wouldn't grant them permission to use either the title or any of the character names . 
that's an odd decision--irving claims it's to protect both himself and the novel--but it's one that doesn't unduly harm the finished product . 
irving's books are rich and complex works , full of intriguing , colorful characters . 
 " a prayer for owen meany " is no exception ; it tells the story of an unusual boy--called simon birch in the film version--who is uncommonly small in stature and possesses a high-pitched falsetto voice , " like strangled mice . " 
simon believes himself to be " god's instrument , " placed on this earth to somehow effect god's plan . 
simon is played by ian michael smith , who suffers from a rare enzyme disorder known as morquio syndrome which , among other things , prevents bones , ligaments , and joints from developing normally . 
smith's debilitating disease makes him an obvious physical choice for " simon birch " ; however , the producers unwisely favored form over function--smith's acting abilities are limited at best . 
another drawback is that in the book , simon's condition is described the way irving describes any of his characters--in careful , loving detail . 
watching " simon birch , " however , creates a different feeling altogether ; the audience is forced into a voyeuristic relationship with the character , surely something irving would not have intended . 
simon himself tends to be too cute and irritating , a combination of smith's rookie status as an actor and the precocious one-liners he's forced to deliver , courtesy mark steven johnson , the film's director and screenwriter . 
fortunately , simon birch isn't the real star of the film that bears his name . 
simon is more of a catalyst , allowing his co-stars to shape the story , and the actors who fill those roles to turn in outstanding supporting performances , saving the film from an obsequious , manipulative destiny . 
first and foremost is joseph mazzello ( " jurassic park " ) , who is nothing less than remarkable as simon's best friend , joe . 
mazzello turns in a wonderfully layered performance for a 14 year old , ripe with laughter , pain , and tears ; he is certainly an emerging talent . 
ashley judd positively beams in her role as rebecca , joe's single mother , and oliver platt is warm and tender as her boyfriend , ben . 
david strathairn and jan hooks play the town's reverend and sunday school teacher respectively and their contributions uphold the high standards set by the others . 
there's even a surprising yet effective uncredited cameo performance from . . . 
well , that would be telling . 
perhaps " suggested by " the novel is the appropriate way to go after all , since " simon birch " only focuses on one chapter , one year , of simon's extraordinary life . 
the film also changes the book's ending to one that is more melodramatic , yet necessary given simon's lot . 
the flavor of irving's original novel remains , however--the passions , friendships , and insecurities that come with a change of seasons to the little community of gravestown , maine , and the engaging oddballs , both big and small , who reside there . 
the only historical figure that has been written about more than william shakespeare is jesus christ , which explains why the bard's materials are such a popular source for remakes , revisions , rewrites , inspiration , subtlety , credit , and dispute . 
indeed , in recent years , american contemporary cinema has been swamped with a wash of shakespearean products . 
including this year's upcoming a midsummer night's dream , shakespeare's material has been the cause for twenty-six big screen productions since 1990 . 
but for a change of pace , mrs . 
brown director john madden gives us a story of the bard himself in the wonderfully vibrant shakespeare in love . 
marc norman and tom stoppard's story is largely fantasy , although as the viewer soon learns , shakespeare in love is not a movie that takes itself seriously . 
 ( will shakespeare of the 1590's would've been married to anne hathaway , and he would've had a teenage daughter and two young sons ; here he is a bachelor played by joseph fiennes . ) will is a writer struggling to come up with a great play , and his current comedy in the works -- " romeo and ethel , the pirate's daughter " -- just doesn't quite seem right . 
with the help of the great writer christopher marlowe ( rupert everett ) , and the inspiration of true love with noblewoman viola de lesseps ( gwyneth paltrow ) , he changes things around and writes one of his greatest tragedies , " romeo and juliet . " 
the love story between will and viola loosely parallels the story of romeo and juliet , to great effect . 
fiennes and paltrow develop a sexy chemistry as the two lovers which gives the movie much momentum ; this momentum smoothes out the bumps in the unfinished and largely unsuccessful comedy . 
the supporting roles are well filled out , from geoffrey rush as will's worrisome agent , philip , to tom wilkinson as the producer hugh fennyman . 
even ben affleck , leading the troupe of actors , manages to make a favorable impression ; and judi dench lends some brief moments of screen time as queen elizabeth i . gwyneth paltrow is by far , however , the standout of the lot , creating a large percentage of the forementioned vibrance . 
the story is well-crafted if nothing else , although it has dangerous moments where it flirts with the " let's make a movie " -genre . 
the dialogue is breezy and lighthearted , and certainly accessible by the audience's lowest common denominator . 
there's something for everyone in this romantic comedy , making it prime date flick material . 
although certainly not inspiring in any regard , it revels in a wholesome , well-rounded atmosphere that has been absent in many of 1998's pictures ; the true-love story is one of the best around . 
certainly recommendable when the traditional slew of indifferent year's-open releases is just around the corner . 
in 1912 , a ship set sail on her maiden voyage across the atlantic for america . 
this ship was built to be the largest ship in the world , and she was . 
she was also build to be one of the most luxurious , and that she was . 
finally , she was built to be unsinkable and that unfortunately she was not . 
to get a ticket for this voyage you either : spent a life's savings to get to america to start life anew , were part of the upper class and had the money to spare , or finally were lucky enough to have a full house in a poker match by the docks like jack dawson . 
jack dawson makes the trip , and happens to be at the right place at the right time . 
rose dewitt bukater , a first class passenger , climbs the railings at the aft of the ship with thoughts of jumping . 
thus is started a tale of romance and intrigue , and a tale of death and tragedy . . . 
this movie is about a tragic event that took place a great many years ago , an even that should not be taken lightly as any other bit of historical trivia . 
the movie titanic shows what happened , maybe not with a 100% degree of accuracy , but it still shows it very realisticaly . 
now the titanic is both a story on its own and a backdrop for a story . 
it serves as both admirably , brining forth an interesting story that although simple in its most simple premise is very captivating . 
this movie is very emotional simply because of what it is , but that alone is not enough . 
the story is brought out with a certain style that makes is so much more emotional and so much more effective . 
movies such as this will not be forgotten all too quickly and unfortunately then are not something that is produced by hollywood with any great frequency . 
the attention to detail that was paid is remarkable . 
the whole premise for the telling of the story is interesting , with the showing of brand new footage from the wreck of the titanic adding much flavor to an already good movie . 
part of the magical chemistry behind this story is the acting , and for this movie its extremely good acting from the whole cast . 
the performances put in by the main stars is something to be admired . 
the characters were played out so memorably that both leonardo dicaprip and kate winslet should receive at the least nominations for their roles . 
looking at the acting done in the movie it seems as if they aren't acting but are actually the characters in the movie . 
the casting for the movie could really have been better , in my humble opinion that is . 
one character that will most likely not be mentioned by any other review or commentary about this film is that of the ship itself . 
yes , you read correctly , the ship is a character . 
how is the titanic a character ? 
you ask well simple , a ship had a certain character about it and as most sailors and boats men will tell you . 
this character is everything about the ship from its specifications to its luxuries and the titanic was no stranger to this . 
mr . cameron brings the ship to life in an almost literal sense . 
all this adds to the movie in a certain way that most hollywood productions cant seem to grasp . 
now , to produce the effect that i mentioned above and to sink the ship itself are feats that are accomplished by special effects wizards . 
the effects in this movie range from marvelous costumes to beautifully rendered scenes of the ships sinking . 
in some respects you cannot tell that the effects are there , you simply think that what you see is what happened or what is happening ( if your imagination is good ) . 
the technical wizardry done in this movie is just spectacular and actually getting new footage from the wreck of the titanic is unique . 
the movie will leave you amazed at the effects , and that is a feat since there is no monsters or aliens in this movie , just humans and an oversized ship . 
the movie will amaze you and it will pull on your emotions , the theater that i went to had a few people leaving with tears in their eyes . 
now that is not a feat accomplished by most movies , now the fact that the tragedy actually occurred is brought home with something of a punch , i wont spoil the ending and say what happens regardless it is an interesting movie from beginning to the very end . 
the historical value of this movie is quite high , and honestly is something that should be watched for the sake of seeing it and seeing the tragedy , for it is extremely well done . 
the method of telling the story is also good , maybe not totally unique but effective none the less . 
regardless of anything mentioned above this movie is a grandiose production and the sheer size of the project undertaken is something to be marveled at . 
the simple fact that the movie is smashingly successful at what it aims to achieve is just astonishing . 
if you get the chance to see this movie go ! ! ! 
it might not be the best movie in the world . . 
but it ranks fairly highly and is well worth the time spent watching it . 
during none of the 3 hours and 13 minutes of the movie are you bored nor does your attention wane from the movie . 
the start of this movie reminded me of parts from the movie stargate . 
people are looking around in an egyptian temple reading about some dangerous thing that is going to destroy earth in the future . 
after a sort of confusing bit involving fake-looking cyborg things , the movie jumps into the future and the movie improves by leaps and bounds . 
the basic idea behind the movie is that every once in a while ( make that every 1000 years or so ) an evil force comes to destroy earth . 
the things needed to defend against this menace are the four elements of nature plus the fifth element . 
the plot in this movie really isn't that important to the thing though . 
this movie has very good special effects , for the most part . 
the techno-ish music in the background fits the mood very well . 
bruce willis is an illegal taxi-cab driver in a futuristic new york city . 
one day a lady draped with a few bandages drops down into his trunk . 
this movie is about what happens . 
the plot twists are interesting and the movie never fails to present the viewer with a variety of different locations . 
also there is a fair bit of action in the film , particularly towards the end . 
some characters are just plain strange including a highly-energetic deejay in drag . 
bruce willis does his normal job of blowing things away like he always does . 
the movie is definitely watchable and rarely slows down . 
it is one of those sci-fi films where you'll be saying " cool " followed by a " what the hell ? ! ? ! " . 
i give the fifth element . 
note : some may consider portions of the following text to be spoilers . 
be forewarned . 
james toback's return to directing after a eight-year layoff , two girls and a guy , is a film which is comprised , more or less , of just that : one guy , blake ( robert downey jr . ) ; two girls , carla ( heather graham ) and lou ( natasha gregson wagner ) ; one primary setting ( blake's absurdly spacious bachelor apartment ) , and a great deal of dialogue . 
embracing a near real-time approach , this is a highly theatrical feature that completely hangs upon the performances of its three actors and the quality of the dialogue written by mr . toback for his bantering characters . 
fortunately , the film's cast is up to the challenge , and the wordy exchanges between the triad of characters , while admittedly variable , are occasionally wickedly amusing . 
the film's setup is fairly generic in nature , and opens rather unpromisingly . 
we meet self-possessed blonde carla and feisty brunette lou , both waiting outside a soho loft . 
as they engage in idle chatter , it is revealed that they're both waiting for their respective boyfriends to return from the airport , and it doesn't take long for them to come to the realisation that they're being two-timed by the same guy . 
more indignant with him than catty with each other , the duo break into blake's loft and await his arrival for a confrontation . 
it's when blake returns to his abode where the film hits its stride . 
played with magnificent bombast by mr . downey jr . , blake is a cad , all right , but a captivatingly dynamic , blusterous , and stealthy piece of work that bursts onto the scene and raises the stakes to new heights . 
it's fascinating to watch this character in his natural habitat , and perhaps the film's best choice was to have his two girlfriends scamper off into hiding upon his return , allowing us to size up blake not with his interactions with others , but by his own innate behaviour . 
whether he's flamboyantly behind his piano in a rollicking rendition of vivaldi , or on the phone leaving messages to his beloveds ( carla , lou , and his unseen sickly mother ) , it's never less than wildly entertaining and insightful . 
though at this point i almost hoped the film would transform into a one-man show -- a typical afternoon in the life of blake , if you will -- carla , and then lou , reveal themselves , and the sparks begin to fly . 
 ( one of the great touches in the film is how blake , when startled by carla's unannounced appearance , begins to both verbally and physically backpedal even before he realizes that the cat's out of the bag . ) 
double-teamed by the understandably aggrieved women ( who are more smirkingly inquisitive than ferociously vengeful -- they want a justification for his ongoing hypocrisy ) , an increasingly-flustered blake weakly defends himself with apologetic and even self-righteous declarations against their verbal jabs . 
surprisingly delightful in the waltz of scathing witty banter shared by its trio of characters , two girls and a guy concludes its first sequence with an unexpected apoplectic act of such outrageous audacity that it seemed nothing was off-limits for this film . 
however , it'd be unfeasible to attempt to string along carla and lou's outrage to full feature-length , and it's as the movie gradually transforms into the sharing of exploratory profundities on the nature of fidelity and relationships that it slowly but surely begins to unravel . 
the dialogue becomes less and less engaging and clever , the film's tempo loses its liveliness , the dynamic between the characters evolves in unconvincing fashion , and several sequences fall flat . 
subtle and not-quite-subtle allusions are made ( a poster of jules et jim hangs prominently on the wall ) , and secrets are revealed which barrel the film toward an uncompelling weepy finale . 
one key turning point in the film is the kinky sex scene between blake and carla . 
two girls and a guy was embroiled in a bitter , long-running dispute with the mpaa with regards to this scene -- contractually-obligated to deliver an r-rated film , mr . toback was forced to resubmit fourteen scaled-down versions of the steamy interlude before the mpaa withdrew their nc-17 rating in favour of an r -- and while admittedly titillating , the net effect of the vignette on the film's thematic narrative is rather dubious . 
if anything , two girls and a guy serves as a showcase for the phenomenal talents of mr . downey jr . , whose versatility is put to the test in this film . 
he plays the gamut from indignant to humbled , from self-assured to disconcerted , yet his acting gears shift so smoothly as to not be registered . 
it's a wonderful performance in a role custom-tailored for him ; mr . toback wrote the screenplay in four days shortly after mr . downey jr . was arrested on drug charges , and it's hard not to see echoes of reality seeping into his character -- in a monologue to his mirrored reflection , blake's self-chiding to " get [his] shit together " is disquieting in its resonance . 
while mr . downey jr . 's showstopping performance is undoubtedly the primary strength of the film , both actresses are solid in more broadly-observed roles . 
ms . graham is quickly becoming one of america's more daring actresses , involving herself in three successive risky projects -- two girls and a guy and boogie nights are both quite sexually frank , while lost in space has a screenplay penned by akiva goldsman . 
she's quite appealing here , playing a character at once both dainty and sultry . 
meanwhile , ms . gregson wagner initially portrays lou with such an unwarranted spunk that audiences are likely to find it either annoying , or , like me , endearing . 
she tones it down substantially as the film progresses , but i found her more fun to watch as the artificially excitable chatterbox . 
the film was reportedly shot in eleven days , filmed mostly in sequence , and the resultant artifacts of this rapid shoot are evident throughout . 
two girls and a guy has an agile , spontaneous sort of feel , and one senses that mr . toback encouraged a good deal of improvisation from his three actors . 
while the film could be transposed directly to the stage more or less intact , it doesn't feel constricted ; the expansive apartment setting is well-used to vary the background , and mr . toback allows his camera to wander and linger on his characters in an effective manner . 
two girls and a guy falls short of its potential , but thanks to some stellar work by mr . downey jr . , it's still often an enjoyable , bitingly funny romp , particularly as we watch the surprisingly-resilient blake evasively try to rationalize his behaviour and even turn the tables on his girlfriends . 
 " i'm an actor , " he tells them at one point , using the ol' tried-and-tested occupational-hazard defense . 
 " actors lie . " 
but not , they all seem to agree , denzel washington . 
robert altman's cookie's fortune is that rare movie that does not depend on sentimentality to be uplifting and to make its viewers feel good . 
it is a sunny , delightful , dreamy comedy , filled with lovely performances , skillful direction and topped off with an understated , clever , extraordinary script . 
as this is an ensemble piece , it is forced to start of slowly as it introduces us to its characters , all of them residing in a southern town called holly springs . 
first we meet willie ( charles s . dutton ) , an honest man with a slight drinking habit . 
we then see that willie takes care of an elderly lady nicknamed cookie , who is slowly losing her grip on sanity and is being filled with loneliness , despair , and want of her dead husband . 
we cut to camille ( glenn close ) who is obsessively directing a play with her sister cora ( julianne moore ) . 
then we briefly get acquainted with emma ( liv tyler ) , an apparent relative of cookie , who is a down-but-not-out teen outcast , still full of love and hope even though she has no real place to live . 
we also fleetingly see emma's lover jason ( chris o'donnell ) , an ambitious but far too excitable young cop . 
we are now about one quarter through the two hour picture , and robert altman decides that it is time to set the plot in motion . 
we see the ecstatic cookie stare hopefully at a picture of her husband . 
she exclaims " here i come ! " 
and then puts a pillow to her face and shoots herself . 
soon after , her niece camille stops by to get a fruit salad bowl , comes upstairs , finds cookie dead and flips out . 
convinced that suicide is a disgrace and that she will have none of that in her family , she eats the suicide note and convinces her slightly slow ( yet sweet ) sister that it was a murder . 
she makes sure that she stages it like a murder as well ; scattering jewelry all over the floor , breaking a few cabinets , windows and doors , and then throwing the gun out in the back yard . 
the only reasonable suspect is willie , who immediately gets taken into custody , and put in a jail cell ( they all know he didn't do it , so the cell stays open and he plays scrabble with the sheriff and the faithful emma ) . 
meanwhile , the unperturbed camille continues her none-too-subtle manipulations trying to further cover up for the murder while at the same time making her easter play a success . 
so begins cookie's fortune , a film aptly described by critic scott renshaw as " a southern spin on fargo , " except that this one is far funnier and much more enjoyable than the coen brothers' darker , somewhat disturbing and slightly overrated escapade . 
robert altman's slight picture is in some ways reminiscent of something like midnight in the garden of good and evil as well , in that both films focus ( on and off ) on the eccentricities of the residents in a southern us town . 
indeed , most of the characters in cookie's fortune are loads of fun to observe , and a portion of them are fascinating and surprisingly multi- dimensional . 
glenn close turns in an insubstantial ( in terms of her career ) but magnificent performance as the conniving camille and is also the source of a good portion of the many laughs that we enjoy in this movie , and she is perfectly cast as the prolific " aunt alexandria " character , endlessly obsessed with family dignity . 
the equally essential role of willie is handled with an intangible grace by veteran thespian charles s . dutton ( mimic , a time to kill ) 
there is nothing like a movie which leaves you feeling all warm and fuzzy inside hours , even days after the film ends . 
cookie's fortune is such a movie . 
i loved the light , kindhearted approach altman ( whose last project was the dark , intense drama the gingerbread man ) took towards the tricky subject matter . 
i enjoyed the talented ensemble cast . 
i even liked the trite " in the south everybody is related to everybody " cliche that is inevitably employed by the time this movie draws to a close . 
i'm not sure why cookie's fortune had such an all-around pleasing effect on me . 
perhaps it's that good ol' southern charm . 
well i'll be damned . . . 
the canadians can make a good movie . 
the world is coming to an end . 
we don't know why or how , but apparently there is no way to stop it . 
the world has had this information for months , as most of the rioting and other assorted chaos has passed and governments have shut down operations . 
yet for a handful of toronto citizens , life goes on . 
they aren't going crazy or attacking people in the streets . 
instead they are simply preparing themselves for the end . . . 
some engaging in activities they've always wanted to do , some gathering with family and friends , and others just seeking to be alone . 
these people's lives however all intersect during their final six hours . 
writer-director-star don mckellar has crafted a highly unique and emotional film . 
all of the main characters are compelling as they try and do whatever it is they need to do on their last night on earth . 
craig ( callum keith rennie ) tries to fulfill all his sexual fantasies , a gas company employee ( david cronenberg ) calls every customer letting them know the gas will be flowing until the very end and thanks them for their business , and patrick ( mckellar ) just wants to be by himself but isn't having much success . 
even minor characters keep popping up where you least expect them to , tying everyone even closer . 
things seemed a little hokey towards the beginning of the film , but ultimately everything comes together nicely ( although it's not a happy film . . . 
some moments are understandably gut-wrenching ) . 
the story is enhanced by some unexpected humor and very realistic performances , particularly from sandra oh , whose character is just trying to get home to her husband before the end . 
i have absolutely no problem that the reason for the end of the world is never given , nor does it bother me that the world is ending at exactly 12 midnight ( in toronto anyway ) . 
but i do wonder why the sun never sets . 
come midnight , the sun is still shining brightly . 
maybe the sun is crashing into the earth . . . 
who knows . 
also , it's comforting to know that in mankind's final moments on the planet , people will still gang up on the street for the sheer purpose of pushing over a car or a bus ( that's not a shot at this film mind you . . . 
i know people are just stupid and truly would be out in the street tipping over cars ) . 
last night is available on dvd from universal home video . 
it contains the film in fullscreen format and includes the original theatrical trailer . 
[r] 
hedwig ( john cameron mitchell ) was born a boy named hansel in east berlin . 
as a teen seeking his " other half , " he reluctantly agrees to a sex change operation in order to marry american g . i . 
luther ( maurice dean wint ) . 
the operation , performed by a hack surgeon , is botched , and the " angry inch " is all that's left . 
now a " she " , hedwig comes to america , is abandoned by luther , forms a rock band and falls for her 17-year old lover/prot ? g ? , tommy , only to be rejected by him later , too . 
she and her band , the angry inch , shadows the now-famous tommy gnosis across the us ( for revenge ? ) , but hedwig is really in search of her lost other half in " hedwig and the angry inch . " 
first time helmer john cameron mitchell , along with composer/lyricist stephen trask , created and starred in their acclaimed off-broadway production that has become the movie . 
and quite a movie it is in its eclectic variety of songs , outrageous costumes , sets and makeup and , especially , a riveting performance by mitchell as the title character . 
mitchell and trask have reinvented the movie musical and couple it with the underlying story of just whom hedwig is and what she is looking for . 
i am , by far , not a big fan of musicals . 
sure , there are exceptions , like bob fosse's " all that jazz " and " cabaret , " but , for the most part , they are just not my cup of tea . 
 " hedwig and the angry inch " is an exception , though , with its combination of humor , wit and a collection of tunes that covers musical styles ranging from " the rocky horror picture show " and meatloaf to david bowie to the sex pistols . 
the original songs , by stephen trask ( also appearing as one of the members of the band the angry inch ) , are full of energy and variety and , even though it's not my kind of music , i found every one entertaining and fun . 
the audience i saw " hedwig " with thought so , too . 
the main attraction to this one-man/woman show is the presence of its star . 
john cameron mitchell gives a solid , sometimes fun , sometimes angry performance as a person searching for self-enlightenment and love . 
as a young boy growing up in east berlin , hansel is abused by his g . i . 
father and raised by his german mother in a tiny flat so small that " mother would make me play in the oven " where he listened to pop music on armed forces radio . 
later , as a young man , he meets luther , another g . i . 
and is swept off of his feet . 
the ensuing angry inch incident comes soon after . 
flash forward to a trailer park in junction city , kansas , and luther is leaving hedwig for another boy . 
frustrated and broke , she takes on baby-sitting and the odd " job " to make ends meet . 
she also forms a band with four korean housewives and the musical talent of hedwig is born . 
she meets , falls for and loses young tommy , who steals her songs and goes off to become a rock sensation . 
jealous and angry , hedwig and her new band begins a campaign to shadow tommy's tours and , with the help of her manager , phyllis stein ( andrea martin ) , is trying get a law suit going against the star for stealing her songs . 
hedwig and the angry inch get gigs , not coincidentally , at a chain of seafood restaurants that just happen to be next to the forums where tommy gnosis is playing . 
things finally come to a head , so to speak , in new york city . 
the popularity of the off-broadway musical and its offshoots have garnered a ready-made audience base for " hedwig . " 
the wit , humor , music and search for identity has great appeal to young adults , but the charismatic presence of mitchell makes this a cut above what it could have been . 
it is this one-man/woman show that casts its spotlight on its " internationally ignored " rock star and mitchell is outstanding in the role . 
there isn't a lot going on with other characters , though there are amusing little sidebars , like hedwig's backup singer/lover , yitzak ( miriam shor ) , deciding to break away from the band to join a polynesian road show of " rent " as a puerto rican drag queen . 
the low budget that the moviemakers have for the production belies the quality of the film . 
attention to details - hedwig's costumes and outrageous " cabaret " -like makeup ; the seedy trailer park setting ; and , the kitschy seafood restaurants - are loads of fun to watch and lend the appropriate air to the proceeds , all on what has to be a beer budget . 
 " hedwig and the angry inch " may not be for everybody , but the energy of the effort , the songs , the imaginative sets and costumes and a fast steady pace make it a pleasure to watch . 
if you're a fan of contemporary , edgy music , it is an even bigger draw . 
i give it a b+ . 
niagara niagara ( r ) bob gosse's niagara niagara follows a blueprint not unlike a lot of young-lovers-on-the-road movies . 
wild marcy ( robin tunney ) and calm seth ( henry thomas ) meet cute , literally running into each other while shoplifting at a local store . 
a mere couple of scenes later , the two embark on a journey to toronto from their small , unnamed american town in pursuit of a rare doll that marcy desperately wants . 
along the way , true love inevitably blossoms . 
what sets niagara niagara apart , though , is that marcy is afflicted with tourette's syndrome , a neurological disorder that causes sudden muscle and vocal tics . 
tunney , displaying an acting range not hinted at in the teenage witch thriller the craft , delivers an astonishing performance that won her the best actress prize at last year's venice film festival . 
to term her work a tour-de-force is not to imply that she attacks the scenery ; tunney's effectiveness lies in her modulation and vulnerability , which makes her depiction of marcy's illness--which often causes her to act violently--that much more convincing and tragic . 
she and the nicely subtle thomas develop a sweetly innocent and beguilingly off-kilter chemistry . 
their journey hits a few rough spots creatively along the way , mostly the fault of writer matthew weiss . 
a detour involving a kindly widower ( michael parks ) who takes the couple in brings the story to a screeching halt , and the key character of a trigger-happy pharmacist ( stephen lang ) is highly unbelievable . 
but these missteps do not blunt the power of tunney's bravura turn , which carries niagara niagara to a level of poignance it would not have otherwise achieved . 
 ( opens march 20 ) 
 " i didn't know what to expect . 
it's like something you chase for so long , but then you don't know how to react when you get it . 
i still don't know how to react . " 
--michael jordan , on winning his first nba championship in 1991 . . . or , 
my thoughts after meeting him on november 21 , 1997 
notice : this is a review and analysis of exotica . 
the first part of this piece is the review , the second part contains some analysis of the movie which might be construed as spoilers . 
if you have not seen the movie and after reading the first part you intend to do so , then save the second part for the discussion afterwards . 
starring : bruce greenwood , mia kirshner , elias kosteas , don mckellar , arsinee khanijian , sarah polley director : atom egoyan screenplay : atom egoyan 
exotica is a film that grows on retrospection . 
exotica keeps the viewer guessing about the relationship between the various characters in the film . 
all of the people know each other , but apart from that , there seems to be no other reason why to select such set and follow them in this fictional account . 
the director hints for possible solutions , using a multi-line plot , so popular with critics in mystery train , and used to good advantage by quentin tarantino in pulp fiction . 
exotica reaches a whole new dimension using this technique . 
at the end it is surprising to see how well the pieces of the puzzle fit together , in spite their apparent unconnectedness and even misleading features . 
the out-of-chronological-order technique has become ever so popular , perhaps even de rigueur , for biographical films . 
similarly , we can now expect to see more movies in the future which will use , to varying extent , converging multiplots . 
on a first glance , once the multi-plot puzzle in exotica is solved , there seems to be little left to look at . 
but perceptive minds which take the time to dig further will be rewarded with interesting views on life or rather , commentaries on views of life . 
exotica is very much worth seeing . 
it opened to critic's praise worldwide ( i first saw it in mexico city , last december ) . 
in canada , it broke records for a movie of its kind , which prompted the american distributor to go for a wide release . 
apart from a strong plot , acting is very convincing , and the soundtrack seems as if made for the movie . 
the spoon-fed-entertainment crowd may not appreciate this movie , and thus it might last little on screen . 
but if you want to try a movie a cut above the crowd , with an originality that is ever so rare , by all means see exotica . 
analysis ( * * spoilers * * ahead ) 
what is behind the complex plot in exotica ? 
first , a common theme of the quest for gratification by monetary means . 
the lone tax-auditor , the repressed homosexual pet shop owner , the pregnant woman which runs the nightclub , the rich man which has the club remodeled , the audience at the movie theatre , all use personal wealth to buy palliative relief for the penuries of the soul . . . . 
then we have the quest for gratification through visual means by most of the same people , including those who sit watching exotica . . . . 
in that regard exotica stands for onlookers at a nightclub , for the rich man looking through silver mirrors , and poor-rich people looking at other's people lives through a silver screen . 
exotica also stands for unwanted society attention into the lives of other people , such as the tax auditor and the pet shop owner . 
exotica is the customer agent looking at the pet shop owner , which in turn is looking at the core of the problems between the strip dancer and the tax auditor through the detached eye of a gay person ( no attraction to the strip dancer ) , and only interested on avoiding jail ( no personal relationship with the tax auditor ) . 
in exotica everybody is watching , and what is worse , everybody knows . 
second , exotica is about isolated people holding back their feelings ; about people which by voluntary or involuntary means transfer their view of reality to other characters . 
the strip dancer becomes the proverbial daughter , the dj becomes the proverbial killer by means of breaking the relationship between the father and the proverbial daughter . 
the niece becomes the baby sitter , the baby sitter becomes the dancer , and the dancer becomes the proverbial daughter . 
the pet shop owner becomes the proverbial dj , by finding the proverbial daughter . 
a chain made of real and imagined links coming around full circle , just as everything comes around to a fitting whole at the end of the movie . 
i actually am a fan of the original 1961 or so live-action-disney flick of the same name starring hayley mills twice as a pair of twins , separated at birth by divorcing parents , never to come in contact with the other so the parents never have to meet again . 
and everyone should know how i feel about remakes , especially of films i happen to enjoy ( my fallacy : unless you're going to either capture the same exact spirit of the original or do something different with it or maybe even both , just wrack your brain and come up with a * gasp * new idea ) . 
this remake was not originally on the top of my viewing list , and was actually quite the opposite . 
contemporary live-action-disney films are not one of my favorties , anyway : they're usually unfunny , alienating , and a big fat bore , at least to anyone over the age of 11 and above the iq of 10 . 
this one , however , is shockingly not bad . 
in fact , it's actually good . 
not the original good , but what's great about it is that it doesn't necessarily retread the original or capture the same exact spirit as it does become entertaining for the same exact reasons the original was entertaining . 
because it's cute and innocent fun . 
because it has a pretty killer plot that is endlessly fun to follow along with . 
because the lead star is immensely appealing . 
because the parents are also immensely appealing . 
and ( i'm repeating myself ) because it's cute and innocent fun . 
there's nothing too risque about it , save the plot ( the idea of separating twins and denying them the truth for years is ominously selfish , but that is precisely the point of the movie ) , and it's aimed directly at either kids , adults who want to remember the original , or young adults who want to remember what it was like to be a kid . 
i , personally , am somewhere between the second and third . 
i can vividly remember when my taste in movies wasn't so weird or diverse ( the names godard and kubrick weren't even a glimmer in my right eye back then ) , when i would tune in every sunday night for a couple years to see abc's " wonderful world of disney , " where they'd show you a live-action and/or made-for-tv disney flick an hour per week . 
i can remember my mom taking my sister and i along with all my friends and their mothers to see all the rereleased disney films ( like " lady and the tramp " and " pinnochio " ) . 
and , most sadly , i remember every single christmas , without fail , there were a barage of children's animated half-hour shows , made exclusively for the christmas season , that i wouldn't dare missing . 
i can even remember seeing the made-for-tv " parent trap ii " on tv one night , and after i had seen that one over and over and over again , i saw the original " parent trap . " 
it's more of a late childhood movie , because it deals with the issue of divorce , but it deals with it in a disney-ized version . 
it's playful , and witty , and charming , and if i saw it for the first time right now , having never experienced that part of my childhood , i'd probably dismiss it . 
i'd probably do the same for the new version of the same movie if i hadn't seen the original at such a perfect age . 
watching it , i could remember what fun it was to watch a disney film , and how divorce for me started to get me thinking about the possibilities of my seemingly-perfect parents splitting up , and how it affected my adolescence . 
and also how it brushed that fear off with a smooth stroke , and pointed out that even in the most fucked-up of situations , things could always work out if you , well , manipulate things a bit , at least for the better . 
this new version did that for me , but it's also charming in its own way . 
it has a new cast , a contemporary feel , and , for the first time in awhile for a live-action-disney flick , a tone that isn't corny or condescending , but just right . 
the moments that would otherwise seem corny are actually affecting in a safe kind of way . 
and for the first time since the original film , the kids actually know better than the foolish adults . 
the story is basically classic by now , repeated almost as many times as kurosawa's " the seven samurai " : a pair of twins ( played here by lindsay lohan , just like they were played by hayley mills in the original ) are separated at birth by their divorcing parents . 
one , annie , is sent to live with the mother ( natasha richardson , resembling her mother , vanessa redgrave , more than i had ever noticed ) in london , where she lives with her parents and her devoted , foppish butler ( simon kunz ) , as she works as a swingin' fashion designer . 
she grows up refined and classy , but also with a keen knowledge in sports and poker-playing . 
the other , hallie , is sent to northern california with her father ( dennis quaid ) to live on a vineyard with their pseudo-maid ( lisa ann walter ) , and grows up rugged yet charming . 
they both meet at the same camp , one that annie wants to go to to become more rugged . 
they feud because they look all-too similar , and are thus in tight competition , which results in some nasty pranks , which winds them in seclusion together in a private , out-of-the-way cabin . 
there , they become friends , then learn about eachother . 
once they know everything , they concoct a scheme to switch places so the one can meet the other parent , whom they've only heard of . 
they learn about eachother's lives in detail , they make sure they look alike ( which requires hair cutting and , notoriously , ear-piercing - a scene which is like the kiddie version of the hypodermic needle scene in " pulp fiction " ) , and when the end of summer comes , they switch and hope for the best . 
lindsay lohan doesn't necessarily copy the acting style of hayley mills in the original . 
but she comes off just as appealing as she did once . 
she does , though , add a couple new things : she makes the california twin a little more appealing and the london twin a bit more frank and snobbish than the snotty and proper original , respectively . 
she also adds on an american and british accent to each one , with one faking the other accent throughout , and if you really take notice , you can see that the fake ones' accents aren't exactly perfect . 
she's also incredibly appealing , not merely cute , which is especially notable since this is her first feature film , and we know how notorious child actors are , especially in their first films . 
she makes a great protagonist , and it only helps that the supporting cast is equally appealing . 
dennis quaid , in fact , hasn't been this likable in about a decade - his big dumb smile and near cocky attitude is what has made him a notable actor in the past , not just that he's mr . meg ryan . 
ditto natasha richardson ( except that she just hasn't ever been this likable period ) . 
the two make a winning couple , maybe not so winning as maureen o'hara and the late brian keith in the original , but they still work for this film . 
instead of the bickering that ensued in the original , the film adds another dimension and another angle to their characters that was amiss in the original : during the opening credits , we see glimpses from their courtship on the qe2 , where they fall quickly and madly in love with eachother , and when back together again , the film's more smarmy scenes come off as actually sentimental , but in that great way , not the migraine-inducing way as in many such films . 
this all brings this new " parent trap " to a level of entertainment that hasn't really existed since , well , the original film years ago , still my money the best live-action-disney flick of all time . 
this is because it has a form of intelligence and wit that makes such plot points as an otherwise standard villainous love interest subplot ( a gold-digging sharon stone type , played by elaine hendrix , who's deliciously tormented by the twins later on in the film ) a treat instead of a bore . 
like the original , this film transcends all the crap that it very well could be ( case in point : " it takes two " starring the olsen twins ) because it treats the children as the smart ones , and the adults as the silly ones , not the other way around . 
and because , above everything , it knows exactly how to be charming without biting off more than it can chew . 
however , in comparison with the original , it could be a bit better . 
certain scenes work well , but not nearly as well as they worked in the original . 
i liked the way the parents fought over past dilemnas and then fought over falling in love again better than i liked watching two old flames getting back together over a bottle of wine - somehow , feuding is always more cinematic and pleasing than mere reminscing , a lesson extracted from the howard hawks/cary grant films of yesteryear . 
and as much as this film transcends mere cutedom , compared to the original , this film almost drowns in cutedom . 
the original , though not gritty , was far more stylized and just as suitable for adult audiences as it was for young audiences . 
as such , this remake may never be nearly as great or classic as the original film , but it at least knows how to treat its source material with dignity and respect , and how to create virtually the same effects without bordering on plagerism or petty annoyances . 
gere , willis , poitier chase each other around the world 
the jackal a film review by michael redman copyright 1997 by michael redman 
when the soviet union imploded , the western countries lost their shadow . 
with the united states friendly with the russians , we no longer had an entity to blame for the world's problems . 
this showed up in hollywood films as the communist government was no longer the easy bad guy . 
it's time to rejoice because we've found our new villain . 
now it's no longer the russian government who sends killers out into foreign lands , it's the russian _mafia_ . 
a perfect solution , it combines the dread of organized crime and the still-present uneasiness with the former eastern block countries . 
best of all , the villains are still foreigners : fear of the other always plays best . 
so it is a crime lord in moscow that sends legendary hitman the jackal ( bruce willis ) to assassinate a highly placed us government figure in retaliation for the death of his brother during a nightclub raid . 
the fbi is at a loss as to how to protect the target from someone they're not sure even exists . 
coming to their rescue is former ira operative declan mulqueen ( richard gere ) who is temporarily released from prison to assist fbi agent carter preston ( sidney poitier ) and russian major valentina koslova ( diane venora ) . 
mulqueen's ex-girlfriend basque terrorist isabella ( mathilda may ) is the only person who has seen the elusive jackal . 
 ( presumably there is an exclusive international terrorist club somewhere where the three met . ) 
the film follows two parallel tracks as the jackal prepares for his $70 million hit and mulqueen attempts to locate him while preston makes sure that the irishman doesn't slip away . 
crossing numerous borders and donning various disguises for both himself and his mini-van , the killer is always one step ahead of his pursuers . 
being very loosely based on the same book the 1973 thriller " the day of the jackal " , comparison between the two films is inevitable . 
there is no doubt that the original is the better movie , playing the story for suspense rather than the current action/adventure . 
as a mystery , " the jackal " has enough holes in it to ruin the tale , but if you can accept it for what it is , there's entertainment to be had . 
holes ? let's see ? a pivotal clue for mulqueen is so obscure that he must possess psychic powers to pick it up . 
for a 20-year veteran that can command the big bucks , the jackal is an incredibly poor shot . 
the final scene between gere and willis occurs in a location that should be mobbed with police , but it's just the two of them . 
willis' disguises usually look like bruce willis and are just as interesting as val kilmer's in " the saint " . 
 ( and lest you misunderstand , that's not a compliment . ) 
but the three stars are fun to watch . 
it's good to see gere in something other than a business suit . 
willis has a mixed history in picking projects , but his characters are always watchable . 
poitier is by far the superior actor , but has limited screen time . 
the problems in logic are flaws , but don't ruin the experience . 
occasionally there are movies that transcend their blemishes . 
this is one of them . 
[the appeared in the 11/20/97 " bloomington voice " , bloomington , indiana] 
it's terribly unfortunate that " stir of echoes , " tautly written and directed by david koepp ( who made one of 1996's unsung treasures , " the trigger effect " ) , should be released little more than a month after " the sixth sense , " which is still going strong at the box office . 
these two films are undoubtedly going to be compared ( judging from practically all of my fellow audience members last night ) , and although they have eerily similar storylines , " stir of echoes " is more of a straightforward psychological horror film , while " the sixth sense " is closer to a psychological drama . 
additionally , while " the sixth sense " had a shocker of an ending that undoubtedly has been one of the major factors in its recent repeat business , " stir of echoes " is more conventional and predictable in its final twist . 
and where " the sixth sense " was disturbing , " stir of echoes " is just plain scary . 
i have a feeling most viewers are going to come away unimpressed because of the unavoidable similarities , and will foolishly forget to judge this film on its own respectable merits . 
adapted from a novel by richard matheson that was written some forty years ago , " stir of echoes " opens with a cute six-year-old boy named jake ( zachary david cope ) who is taking a bath . 
he is speaking directly at the screen , but we immediately have a feeling someone else is there . 
finally , he asks , " does it hurt to be dead ? " 
apparently jake sees the ghosts of dead people , but unlike " the sixth sense , " this young child isn't the focus of the picture . 
instead , tom witzy ( kevin bacon ) , a chicago lineman , is our protagonist . 
jake is his son , and maggie ( kathryn erbe ) , whom has just discovered she is six weeks pregnant , is his hard-working wife . 
one night while at a party with their closest friends , tom convinces maggie's new-age sister , lisa ( illena douglas ) , to try and hypnotize him . 
it unexpectedly works , and before long , tom is seeing things he wouldn't normally see , including a deceased teenage girl ( jenny morrison ) in his house who happens to have been missing for the last six months . 
seeking help from lisa , she tells him that , while he was under hypnosis , she told him that after he awoke , his mind will remain clear and free , like an opened door . 
she didn't expect it to work , but it did , and the only way to stop it is for tom to somehow find a way to help this girl he sees . 
 " stir of echoes " isn't a perfect film by any stretch of the imagination , but in the thick , atmospheric mood it conjures up , it is a terrifically eerie domestic horror-drama , and is not only effective on a technical level , but is impressive in its portrayal of a struggling working-class family . 
kevin bacon and , especially , kathryn erbe ( 1997's " dream with the fishes " ) , are top-notch and exceedingly believable as a loving married couple who nonetheless have their fair share of problems . 
after tom is hypnotized and starts seeing ghastly visions , he is completely taken over by his desire to solve this mystery of the disappearing girl whom he has seen lurking in his house , and instead of maggie not being understanding , she instead believes what tom says , and aside from being a little worried by what he is going through , does not try to stop his pursuit . 
bacon and erbe are not traditional hollywood stars like tom cruise and julia roberts , and therefore , are easier to relate to and always plausible as a struggling couple who have to work overtime at their jobs just to make ends meet . 
in a masterfully-done , entrancing sequence , tom is hypnotized by lisa , but instead of watching him , we instead see what he sees , starting from his view as he closes his eyes into darkness . 
lisa tells him to visualize being in an empty movie theater , and so , we , as audience members , are watching a movie screen from inside a theater , which is also showing a movie screen in a theater . 
telling him to move closer and closer to the screen as a fuzzy word in black letters pops up on the screen , we begin to float closer and closer to the front of the theater until we see that the word is " sleep . " 
never before have i seen a hypnotism scene as mesmerizing and brilliantly-construed as this one . 
truthfully , this set-piece , and another in which tom wakes up from a nightmarish dream only to quickly discover he is reliving what he has just dreamt , are worth the full price of admission alone , just to see them on the big screen . 
having loads of fun with her small role as maggie's sister , lisa , illeana douglas ( 1995's " to die for , " her last great character ) is a delight , but rarely used to her full advantage in feature films . 
funny and enjoyably offbeat , douglas gets to utter the best line in the film : while talking to maggie about tom's visions of the girl , she remarks , " i wouldn't be worried about him seeing another girl , although the fact that she's dead gives one pause . " 
also of note are jenny morrison ( 1994's " intersection " ) , who is truly poignant in the last half of the film when we flash back to see what really happened to her missing character , and liza weil , remarkable in 1998's " whatever , " as morrison's grieving teenage sister , debbie . 
if the resolution of " stir of echoes " does not live up to its obviously frightful full potential ( and it doesn't ) , what comes before is both involving and appropriately gritty . 
the music score , by james newton howard , and unsettling use of whispers and ghostly sound effects , successfully compliment and foreshadow the off-kilter frame-of-mind that tom is put into , and director david koepp proves once again that he is a director with a knack for creating almost unbearably tense situations that revolve around realistically-written characters . 
 " stir of echoes " isn't as good as " the sixth sense , " but why should it need to be ? 
both films are fully capable of standing on their own two feet , and " stir of echoes " really is a spinetinglingly good horror film . 
usually when a blockbuster comes out , it's loaded with effects , stars , bad scripts , and plenty of action . 
mystery men may contain an all-star cast , and efects , but the clever script and characters are what really works , which is rare to see this year . 
the film is based upon the comic book series " the flaming carrot " by bob burden , in which 3 wanna be super heroes try and fight crime , only to be out done by the real hero of champion city , captain amazing ( greg kinnear ) . 
things go a little haywire , when the sinister casanova frankenstein ( geoffrey rush ) is released into the city , where he captures captain amazing , and plans to wreak havoc upon champion city . 
well , the trio decide to take matters in their own hands , by saving the city , but first they need some assitance . 
this is where the film takes a turn for the better . 
in the beggining , there were only 3 wanna be heroes . 
 " blue raja ( hank azaria ) , " mr . furious ( ben stiller ) and " the shoveller ( william h . macy ) . 
sure they were enterataining , but their acts grew old fast . 
that is until they aquire " invisible boy " ( kel mitchell ) , and " the bowler " ( janeane garafalo ) and " mr . splein " ( paul reubens ) , 2 of which rescue the film from becoming a disastorous mess . 
thankfully , the original 3 heroes become amusing , with some support of reuben and garfalo on screen . 
the whole premise is rather ridiculous , but packs a few punches to keep interest . 
for one , the film is considerably clever . 
it literally pokes fun at super hero films , like batman and robin , superman etc . in fact , many scenes are similar to batman and robin , including the opening sequence , only altered in a humorous and superior way . 
a part of the cleverness comes from the cast . 
sometimes a film with such talent is overblown , but the acting is what keeps it alive here . 
while azaria and macy were enteratining , 2 characters really stood out . 
one was paul reuben . 
no matter how disgusting or revolting " mr . splein " may be , you still can't help but laugh . 
it' so incredibly moronic , it's just a riot watching reuben relieve himself of bodily functions . 
janeane garafalo also was an interesting character . 
she seemed to be the most outgoing and convincing character on screem , due to her enthusiasm , that kept the film flowing . 
men is worth seeing alone , for those 2 troubled heroes . 
on the downside , a few of the heroes and especially the villain never really lift off . 
kel mitchell and geoffrey rush , were both utterly useless . 
their parts were so limited , they'd be lucky at all to be on screen for more than 20 minutes . 
ben stiller too was wasted , mostly because of his unlikeable power and dialogue . 
none of these characters get a rise out of anybody , but happily they are lost in the charming flow of the film . 
as far as the budget goes , it was wisely spent on the cast , not the effects . 
while the set designs and action all look nice , i'm glad there was a seperate aspect , that the film focused on , and for that i applaud . 
slow at times , and rather pointless , mystery men still delivers . 
it forgets about money making , because it's not likely to make a bundle like it's proceeders , and that's what works . 
stupid ? 
maybe , but for once i'm not disappointed . 
no one expected an intelligent film , but you get a film thats wit captures your attention and makes you forget this miserable year . 
review- peter jackson's the frighteners has received some notice for setting the record for most computer effects ever in a movie , and still coming in at the extremely cheap $30 million price tag . 
but for those who were dismayed by this year's blockbusters like twister and independence day , the frighteners has much more to offer than special effects . 
and for those worried wether or not peter jackson would compromise to hollywood you can rest easily . 
the frighteners is as far removed from hollywood as a high-profile movie can get . 
michael j . fox stars as frank bannister , a con artist who can speak to ghosts . 
he uses this ability to set up a scam in a small town where his ghost buddies scare the hell out of people , then he comes and pretends to get rid of them . 
this is how he has made a living ever since his wife died in a car crash 5 years ago . 
frank's latest customers are a young couple , played by trini alvarado and peter dobson . 
when dobson ends up dead , alvarado starts to take an interest in fox . 
but dobson's spirit is still around as he refuses to beleive he's dead . 
this leads to a very awkward and amusing dinner date between fox and alvarado , with dobson tagging along as a ghost . 
things start getting complicated for fox when he is accused for a series of murders taking place in the town . 
fox sees someone named the soul collector crushing the heart of the victims , but noone else can see that . 
so when fox shows up to try and save each victim , naturally people suspect he is the killer . 
fox sees that alvarado is next on the soul collector's hit list , and the last half hour of the movie deals with fox's attempts to save her from this evil spirit . 
there are many wonderful twists and turns in the screenplay written by peter jackson and frances walsh . 
the movie starts off as a black comedy , and ends up a horror-action film . 
the mix between these genres are perfect . 
no laughs are sacrificed in the name of horror , and vice versa . 
one point of contention might be a lackluster score by danny elfman . 
but that hardly seems like a flaw when you have such a diverse cast all in top form . 
michael j . fox delivers one of his best performances to date as a man who hides the sorrow of his wife's death , and then is forced to confront this later on . 
alvarado , looking like andie macdowell , makes a great frightened , tough , and smart heroine . 
and jeffery combs , as a paranoid fbi agent , is brilliantly bizaare . 
the frighteners never once feels like it is running long . 
the first hour is as funny as any comedy this year , and the last half hour is as thrilling as any of the big budget blockbusters . 
this movie is probably what casper would've looked like if david lynch directed it . 
it's easily the best film of the year , so far . 
before you read my review , you gotta know that i love woody allen . 
this is a very important note because allen's films are generally an acquired taste and definitely not for everyone . 
i know folks who believe him to be a complete genius , while others see him as a dirty ol' schnook who keeps making the same movie over and over again . 
i love most of his films , but will admit to having been quite disappointed by his recent crop during the 90s . 
in fact , why he felt the need to make 10 movies in those 10 years is beyond me ! 
if you look at the quality of those films , you'll hear what i'm saying . 
the only two films of his that i really liked during that time were bullets over broadway and husbands and wives . 
in fact , i secretly hoped that he would take some " time off " at the turn of the millennium , just to re-energize or something , but it doesn't appear as though he has any intention of doing that . 
so here i am again , reviewing yet another woody allen movie and hoping that it brings back the woody from the days of old . 
plot : the year is 1940 and woody allen is a top-notch insurance investigator . 
his methods are very old-fashioned and apparently out of date . 
a new employee ( hunt ) has just been hired to streamline the operations for greater efficiency . 
the two do not like each other . 
one night , they are both put under a hypnotic trance by a magician , and unbeknownst to them , placed under his control . 
soon thereafter , jewels are stolen , words of love are exchanged and everyone is looking for an answer . 
critique : a wonderful recreation of the 1940s style movies , with the fast-talking witty banter between co-workers , a catchy jazz score moving things along , film noirish elements such as the veronica lake-type sexpot , one-liners galore and a fluffy , if inconsequential plotline . 
on the downside , the film actually starts off pretty slowly , with the first hour tossing only a few guffaws out there , but never really generating any kind of steady flow or energy . 
the sets , on the other hand , were amazing , the production design and costumes were perfect , and the casting ideal , so i kept hoping that the film would pick up and not turn into yet another mediocre outing for the man . 
but it wasn't not long before i was fully engaged by the characters , entertained by the many zingers delivered back-and-forth between allen and hunt , and actually interested in the resolution of the flick . 
i also appreciated how allen played the fine line between homage to the films of old , parody and actual reinvention ( note theron's entire female persona that is drenched in film noir- very cool ) . 
of course , films like this ( with little or no real tension in the plot ) need solid actors to keep you interested in the quick-fire dialogue , and once again , allen does a great job in playing his character , who for once , isn't his typical new york jewish neurotic cheating insecure husband dude . 
he actually plays a " macho " guy here and handles it pretty well , especially the scenes in which he's hypnotized . 
but the bigger surprise for me in this film was helen hunt , an actress who i was openly " sick of seeing " in movies late last year ( sorry babe , you were just in too many at the same time ! ) . 
anyway , she's really great in this film as the headstrong woman looking to a new era of equality amongst men , and doesn't miss a beat of allen's fast-paced dialogue . 
i didn't care much for her running joke about him " dying " whenever he left a room , but overall she was really good and i especially liked the way that her sweaters clung to her breasts as they did . . . yum , 
yum ! 
harumph , but i digress . 
so let's recap . 
a great looking picture with a nice jazzy score , some funny one-liners , especially in the second half , a decent plotline , although you shouldn't expect a real mystery or anything , and some solid acting all around . 
i can't say that this is even remotely close to any of allen's best work , but i certainly believe it to be a step in the right direction , especially after the dinky decade of films that he just went through . 
it's probably better geared towards allen fans more than anyone else , but i would still recommend this film to anyone looking for a cute , " old-school " kind of vibe , with chemistry between the leads , zippy dialogue and a satisfying conclusion . 
little known facts about this film and its stars : annie hall ( 10/10 ) - celebrity ( 5/10 ) - everyone says i love you ( 5/10 ) - husbands and wives ( 9/10 ) - mighty aphrodite ( 5/10 ) - small time crooks ( 7/10 ) - when harry met sally ( 10/10 ) - you've got mail ( 4/10 ) 
susan granger's review of " legally blonde " ( m . g . m . ) 
it's a " pretty in pink " / " clueless " coming-of-age story for the new millennium as elle woods ( reese witherspoon ) , a perky southern california sorority queen , switches from fashion to law in order to win back her yuppy boyfriend ( matthew davis ) . 
the girl-power story begins as this sweetheart of delta nu is unceremoniously dumped by a bonehead who says : " if i'm going to be a senator by the time i'm 30 . . . i 
need to marry a jackie , not a marilyn . " 
determined to prove she's as smart a snobby brunette ( selma blair ) from country-club connecticut , elle not only applies to harvard law school but gets in , much to the amazement of family , friends and faculty . 
once there , this flaxen-haired fish-out-of-water not only survives but tenaciously thrives , befriending a local manicurist ( jennifer coolidge ) , dazzling a professor ( victor garber ) and rescuing a defendant ( ali larter ) in a celebrated boston murder trial , plus finding a more worthy beau ( luke wilson ) . 
in the tradition of teen-comedy film-maker john hughes and his disciple amy heckerling , there's wit , cheerfulness , a fidelity of observation and a penchant for problem-solving . 
first-time feature director robert luketic is blessed with reese witherspoon who's joyously incandescent in this utterly formulaic light comedy written by karen mccullah lutz and kirsten smith , based on a soon-to-be-published novel by amanda brown . 
the supporting cast is terrific , particularly raquel welch and holland taylor - and i particularly got a kick out of the gag of elle distributing scented resumes in pink , her signature color on the granger movie gauge of 1 to 10 , " legally blonde " is a frivolous , funny , feel-good 8 . 
filled with ditzy blonde ambition , it's a movie for high-school kids that their parents would be happy to have them see . 
what do you get when you combine clueless and dumb and dumber ? 
to answer the question , you get director david mirkin's new comedy romy and michele's high school reunion . 
romy white ( mira sorvino , mighty aprhodite ) and michele weinberger ( lisa kudrow , tv's friends ) have been inseparable buddies since they graduated from sagebrush high in 1987 . 
however , when former classmate heather mooney ( janeane garafolo , the truth about cats and dogs ) confronts romy about the 10 year reunion , she is astounded that she forgot . 
watching pretty woman for the um-teenth time , they are reminded of how they wouldn't let julia roberts' character shop in the expensive stores because of her appearance . 
then it hits them : they are not successful . 
what are she and michele going to do ? 
romy's instant solution is lose some weight off their already slender frames , " bag a couple of boyfriends , " and get jobs . 
romy says this will be easy , but michele retorts that if it is so easy , why hadn't they already done it . 
robin schiff's script keeps the show moving with some nice one-liners . 
one of the best has romy reminiscing about her life's battle against the bathroom scales . 
 " i was so lucky getting mono , " she says looking at her thinnest high school picture . 
 " that was like the best diet ever . " 
the casting for the film is so perfect that one begins to suspect that the leads were chosen and then the script was developed . 
romy and michele use their high school yearbook to discuss the caste system at their high school . 
the film's editor david finfer dissolves the stills from the yearbook to live action flashbacks which makes the past come to life . 
at sagebrush high , the hierarchy consisted of the a group ( cheerleaders ) , the b group ( drama club ) and the c group ( nerds ) . 
romy and michele were none of the above . 
ridiculed as " the weirdoes , " they were constant targets for abuse . 
even though they were quite attractive , they had so much fun being together that they did not care about the others . 
that they make their own outlandish clothes helped keep the wall around them . 
complementing romy and michele's lightness , is janeane garofalo as the dark , pudgy heather mooney . 
heather , who invented a new cigarette paper for cigarettes with " twice the taste in half the time for the gal on the go , " has the success and the money that they would like . 
heather was even more of an outsider than they were in high school . 
garofalo's one-dimensional role is only a side show . 
this is a two person film with the other characters there merely for the two leads to bounce their lines off of . 
the genuine chemistry between sorvino and kudrow makes for a sweet and sometimes touching comedy . 
they have so much fun acting out their parts , their enjoyment spreads to the audience . 
 , 
martin scorsese's triumphant adaptation of edith wharton's the age of innocence is a stunning film for the quintessential new york filmmaker , the man who brought the streets of taxi driver and mean streets to life . 
it seems like an odd choice for scorsese to do a period piece in the early 1900's , but the fact that he pulls it off so brilliantly is a wonder , and a testament to the greatness of scorsese as a filmmaker . 
this is a gorgeous visual experience that it surely one of scorsese's finest . 
newland archer ( day-lewis ) is a prestigious lawyer who is engaged to may welland ( ryder ) , a somewhat empty and shallow new yorker , who belongs to a prestigious family and is quite beautiful . 
the marriage is one which will unite two very prestigious families , in a society where nothing is more important than the opinions of others . 
on the day that archer is to announce his engagement to may , countess ellen olenska ( pfeiffer ) , cousin of may , walks into archer's life . 
archer is immediately captivated , and finds himself in love with ellen . 
archer is also bound by the limits of new york society , which is an intrusive as any other in the world . 
archer finds himself having a secret love affair in his mind with countess olenska , attempting to keep her in his mind while trying not to lose his social status . 
the film's subject matter may seem alien to scorsese , but the theme is definitely not . 
it is a theme of forbidden romance , guilty pleasures , and the consequences causes because of those actions . 
there is a painstakingly flawed hero , and his choice between the life he wants , and the life he is destined for . 
in truth , it is a film about a society the audience doesn't know about , but wants to find out more , much like the society of goodfellas or even kundun . 
the performances are absolutely breathtaking . 
day-lewis portrays more mental anguish in his face than one man should be forced to take . 
pfeiffer is marvelous as countess olenska , a mix of passion and beauty that the audience would die for as well . 
ryder is probably the gem of the group , for it is her quiet presence that overwhelms the plot , and slowly pushes day-lewis closer and closer to his eventual ending . 
the supporting cast is also wonderful , with several characters so singular that they are indelible in one's memory . 
scorsese definitely has a passion for filmmaking . 
his lavish and sumptuous set design and marvelous recreation of new york is a wondrous sight . 
he literally transports the viewer to another world with incredible imagery . 
his script is also excellent , slow in buildup , with a rapid conclusion and a fantastic ending that has to be seen to be believed . 
it is difficult to make a period piece gripping : scorsese , however , does it beautifully . 
the famous cameras of the legendary director are also everywhere . 
he is patient , but he films everything and anything remotely important . 
the cameras sweep , pan , track , and do more than they've ever done , but they are so subtle , one doesn't realize he's watching all the scorsese hallmarks until a 2nd viewing . 
the central tracking shot is probably longer and more complex than the famous goodfellas shot , but the viewer doesn't notice it , because we want to see more of this gorgeous world . 
there are a few deft touches of filmmaking that are simply outstanding , and joanne woodward' narration is exquisite . 
not a fast film like goodfellas , this shares more in common with kundun than anything else . 
and like kundun , this is a slow-starting film that truly shines , when given the chance to fully breathe and bloom in the end . 
a beautiful film by a director continuing to challenge himself year after year . 
plot : a dude and his brother are driving cross-country and decide to fool around with a trucker on their cb radio . 
it isn't long before their little prank gets someone put into a coma ( long story ) and the next thing you know , the trucker is following them too . 
lotsa nuttiness ensues and then , they pick up their other friend , venna , a girl who the dude has a crush on . 
but what's this . . . ? 
the trucker is still on their tail and is now harassing all three of the young whippersnappers . . . ? 
you bet ! 
buckle up , dorothy . . . this is gonna be one bumpy ride ! 
critique : a good ol' time at the movies ! 
here's a film that actually gives away most of its plotline in its trailer and doesn't really bring anything " new " to the forefront ( if you've seen flicks like duel and breakdown , you've crossed this path before ) , but still manages to entertain you gangbusters , with realistic situations , believable characters , funny moments , thrills , chills , the whole shebang . 
let's give it up for director john dahl , who continues to put out solid films every other year ( if you haven't seen red rock west , do yourself a favor right now , and jot it down on a piece of paper and rent it at your earliest convenience ) . 
and much like that film , this one has an excellent premise and sets everything up at an even pace . 
it gives you a little bit of background on each of the main three characters , and then shows you how one small prank , can lead to a whole lotta trouble for everyone ! 
paul walker really surprised me in this movie , since i've never much thought of him as anything more than a pretty face ( and damn , is it ever pretty or what ? ! ) 
but here , he actually manages to put some depth behind the looks and that's always appreciated in films in which you are so closely tied to the main characters . 
sobieski is also good , but she isn't in the movie for as long as you'd think , but the man who really takes this film to another level , is steve zahn . 
if you've loved this guy as the " goofball " in most of his previous roles , you'll appreciate him even more here , as the dude who starts off as one of the most manic and excited human beings i've seen in quite some time ( " this is so awesome ! ! " ) , 
only to turn into a man scared out of his wits by the end of the flick . 
and speaking of the ending , boy , does this movie deliver some chilling moments during its final 15 clicks or what ? ! ? 
the arrow and i were practically in each others arms ( well , maybe i'm exaggerating , but you catch my drift ) as each minute brought about another turn of events which in turn , took it all to an even higher level . 
once again , kudos to director dahl for being able to generate that type of intensity , suspense and tension , with a great score , editing , style and camerawork . 
plot-wise , i too did wonder how the " bad guy " was able to track them so well , but it didn't really bother me all that much ( you can assume that he had bugged their car ? ) . 
but pretty much everything else in the story stuck like glue and i couldn't help but put myself in their shoes and appreciate their thoroughly desperate circumstance . 
a great movie with an even cooler ending , this film will likely be remembered as one of the better thrillers of the year . 
 " this is amazing ! ! ! " 
where's joblo coming from ? 
american psycho ( 10/10 ) - deep blue sea ( 8/10 ) - eye of the beholder ( 4/10 ) - the fast and the furious ( 7/10 ) - final destination ( 8/10 ) - the glass house ( 6/10 ) - no way out ( 8/10 ) 
wyatt earp has a lot to tell and little to say . 
this story of the legendary lawman runs three hours and nine minutes and that's too long for this epic-wannabe that plays more like a tv mini-series than a movie . 
the story opens on the earp family farm , with young wyatt ready to run away from home . 
he wants to fight in the civil war , but his dad ( hackman ) has different ideas and wants his son to study law . 
time passes and wyatt heads west , returns home to marry , and , after a spell , begins his career in law enforcement . 
by the time he ( costner ) and his brothers ( madsen , david andrews , and linden ashby ) arrive in tombstone , wyatt has tried his hand at everything from hunting buffalo to dealing cards . 
wyatt earp is very appealing in places-- such as cast , costumes , and cinematography-- but an overstated story and overpowered score deaden most of the emotional impact . 
who can be moved by scene after scene after scene of swelling strings and suffocating speeches ? 
somber is fine-- just ask clint eastwood-- but this film that boasts not one , not two , but three , count 'em three , hammy death scenes ! 
still , a little bit of earp goes a long way and the life and times of the legendary lawman are from uninteresting stuff . 
his , uh , unusual relations with women , for example , are an intriguing contrast to his character's credo of " nothing counts as much as blood . " 
equally amusing is a buffalo-hunting ( and skinning ! ) 
sequence that is decidedly non-pc . 
director lawrence kasdan takes a refreshingly realistic approach to the gunplay . 
the infamous gunfight at the ok corral is both brutal and brief , devoid of almost any theatrics . 
don't look for much glorified violence here . 
despite some large exclamation points in the story , the characters * do * come to life . 
the diverse cast includes everyone from betty buckley ( ! ) to mackenzie astin ( ! ! ) . 
kevin costner is very good in the title role . 
dances with whitney nevers get as steely as the role requires , though , but his transformation from lighthearted law student to stoic sheriff is fun to watch . 
he was tougher in a perfect world . 
his foil is dennis quaid , who pulled a deniro by losing 40+ pounds to play the tubercular terror doc holliday . 
gaunt * and * gamely , he's a scene stealer who's seen too little . 
other familiar faces include tom sizemore ( looking like bruce mcgill ) , bill pullman ( looking like jeff daniels ) , and lea thompson ( looking like someone other than lea thompson ) . 
both gene hackman and isabella rosselini appear and disappear like magic , while late entries catherine o'hara and jobeth williams are surprisingly solid . 
though the story and score should've tried " less is more , " all other credits are technical tops . 
production designer ida random , art director gary wissner , and costume designer colleen atwood are some of the vips who helped spend what must've been an enormous budget . 
clearly no expense was spared . 
when i first heard that kevin costner was making a movie called " the postman , " i thought , " an american version of 'il postino ? ' 
starring costner ? 
god help us ! " 
when i found out that it was not a remake of " postino " but an postapocalyptic epic , i thought , " 'landworld ? ' 
please , god , make him stop ! " 
as it turns out , " the postman " is a much better film than i had expected . 
despite being set in 2013 , the movie is , at heart , a western : a band of thugs terrorizes peaceful villagers ; a wandering hero opposes the bandits and inspires others to fight back . 
the setting , however , allows that familiar plot to take on greater significance : american society has collapsed due to plagues and wars , and survivors live behind barracades in isolated villages . 
the struggle of a dead society to be reborn has a grand quality and deserves the epic scale costner grants it . 
costner's nameless character , a wandering actor , rides in from the vast wasteland and is soon shanghaied into the service of general bethlehem ( will patton ) , a former copy-machine salesman turned bandit king . 
our hero escapes and discovers the body of a dead postman . 
taking the uniform and bag of mail , he passes himself off as a representative of " the restored united states . " 
he is shocked at the hope that he inspires in the people he meets . 
one young disciple , ford lincoln mercury ( larenz tate ) , organizes a full-scale postal service . 
ford spreads the postman's message of hope until bethlehem finds that the once-meek villagers are beginning to resist his rule . 
as war breaks out between bethlehem's army and the postal workers , costner's character steps into the legend he created and goes from self-centered loner to leader of the revolution . 
his lie of the restored united states becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy . 
 " postman " is an odd blend of a bleak setting and a message of wide-eyed optimism ( sort of " sergio leone meets frank capra " ) , but its treatment of hope and renewal is compelling . 
what could have been another knock-off of " the road warrior " ( like " waterworld " was ) surprises the viewer with a sensitively told story of nobility emerging from rubble . 
tate is the stand-out in the movie's large cast . 
ford lincoln mercury ( self-named ) is the polar opposite of o-dog , tate's character in his debut film , " menace ii society " ( 1993 ) , and tate makes ford's innocent belief in hope as convincing as o-dog's cynicism and brutality . 
his performance sells the movie . 
interestingly , as tate moves from his usual street-smart roles to youthful optimism , the soft-eyed patton , who usually plays nice guys , proves a disarming villain . 
olivia williams makes her film debut as the postman's love interest , abby . 
when they first meet , abby asks him to father her child because her husband is sterile . 
predictably , the husband is soon eliminated by the bandits , and abby is thrown back into the company of the hero . 
however , their relationship develops slowly as the emotional conflicts of both characters are explored ( she , torn by grief , guilt , and anger ; he , resisting his destiny ) . 
 " the postman " is costner's best work thus far . 
perhaps that alone gives us hope for the future . 
 . 
 . 
in zoolander , the world's most successful , influential and intellectually-challenged male model derek zoolander wonders , " is there more to life than being really really really good looking ? " 
obviously , the film's creator and star ben stiller asked a similar question when crafting a feature-length movie out of his hilarious vh1/vogue fashion awards short-film subject : can there be more to this film than being really really really silly ? 
no , of course not , and it never aspires to be anything more . 
much like derek , zoolander is a sweet simpleton of a movie . 
it's not complex in either its social commentary or its comedy , and it never produces any gut-busting laughs ( except maybe a scene when derek's model roommates all die in a tragic " gasoline fight " accident -- a riotously funny take-off of tommy hilfiger ads ) . 
but it has a satisfying handful of strong chuckles , wild characters and performances , and mildly harsh potshots at the fashion industry to keep you amused . 
better yet , this exaggerated version of the original three-minute skit is only blown out to an efficient 95 minutes -- just enough time to string together its goofball plot without exhausting the gag . 
zoolander opens with several fashion bigwigs plotting to assassinate the prime minister of malaysia , since he wants to abolish child labor in his country and thus driving up their costs . 
fashion designer and criminal mastermind jacobim mugatu ( will ferrell ) drafts a plan to brainwash the dumbest fashion model to carry out the evil deed . 
enter derek , whose career is slumping as newcomer hansel ( owen wilson ) takes the spotlight . 
on the trail of mugatu's plot is time magazine reporter matilda jeffries ( stiller's real-life wife christine taylor ) , and she's hoping to use mugatu's pawn derek to ultimately foil the scheme . 
much like the austin powers films , zoolander relies heavily on the strength of the talent involved , and this zany comedy features some of the funniest people in entertainment today . 
wilson is hysterical as the young , vain hansel . 
ferrell nearly steals the show from everyone as the flamboyant , freakish mugatu in the same way dr . evil upstages everyone in austin powers . 
jerry stiller -- ben's dad who's best remembered as frank costanza of seinfeld -- makes a priceless turn as derek's slimy agent maury ballstein . 
even ben stiller show alum andy dick shows up as a deranged , large-assed masseuse . 
as for ben stiller , it seems his derek has one gag : he's stupid , which plays out in some uproarious one-liners . 
unfortunately , taylor seems out of place and out of her league here . 
maybe it's just because i can't stop seeing her as marcia brady ( who she played in both brady movies ) , making her unbelievable as a dowdy , brainy plain jane who hasn't had sex in two years . 
she leaves me pining for the cynicism of janeane garofolo , who would've added real comic substance to the flimsy role . 
while zoolander is hardly highbrow , its screwball humor is welcome during these trying times , especially considering the gross lack of decent pickings in the theaters these days . 
zoolander's no masterpiece , but a very worthy distraction . 
originally titled 'don't lose your head' , this parody of the scarlet pimpernel story was the first carry on to be produced by rank film productions . 
two english fops , the 'powdered , be-wigged , be-ribboned' sir rodney ffing ( sidney james ) and his counterpart lord darcy pew ( jim dale ) decide to travel to revolutionary france in an attempt to rescue their fellow french royalists and aristocrats from losing their heads by the guillotine . 
due to a series of machinations and disguises , they are largely successful . 
ffing becomes known as 'the black fingernail' because he leaves a calling card behind which shows two fingers sticking up , one with a black fingernail . 
after the fingernail rescues a prominent royalist the duc de pommfrit ( charles hawtrey ) , citizen robespierre ( peter gilmore ) orders the head of the secret police citizen 'the big cheese' camembert ( kenneth williams ) and citizen bidet ( peter butterworth ) to follow the fingernail to england and do away with him . 
 ( in fact , darcy and ffing are their coachmen ! ) 
once at calais , the fingernail meets jacqueline ( dany robin ) and they fall in love instantly . 
he tells her his identity and gives her his locket . 
when camembert realises that the fingernail is nearby , he searches the inn at calais and captures jacqueline , thinking that she is wearing a diguise and is really the fingernail ! 
jacqueline is imprisoned in the bastille and camembert , his love desiree dubarry ( joan sims ) , and bidet all travel to london in pursuit of the fingernail . 
they pretend to be of noble stock , calling themselves the duc and duchesse de la plume de ma tante ( with bidet their assistant ) and are invited by darcy to a ball held by ffing . 
desiree finds out that ffing is the fingernail by wearing the locket around her neck , but she ends up falling in love with him . 
ffing attempts to stall camembert so that he can return to the bastille to rescue jacqueline , camembert has her moved to the 'chateau neuve' , and a climactic sword-fight decides who will lose their heads at the end of the film ! 
a more complex story than most carry ons , this film enjoys good production values ( sets , costumes ) and an on-form cast . 
sid james is excellent as the english fop and black fingernail , kenneth williams excels as the evil camembert , and peter butterworth expertly plays the substantial part of camembert's thick-witted crony . 
other acting honours go to joan sims who is perfect as desiree and charles hawtrey who is excellent as the french aristo pommfrit . 
although it suffers from a disasterously over-long sword fight at the end of the film , it is largely successful due to the performances of the main stars , its slick and professional production , and its better-than-usual script . 
definitely one of the best of the series and a joy to watch . 
if there is one thing that bothers me about hollywood films it's their predictable endings . 
the devil's advocate has the atypical hollywood ending , when everything that should happen does . 
unfortunately for the devil's advocate , this ending nearly collapses in on itself , and ruins the entire film . 
nevertheless , the film does provide two and a half hours of pure entertainment ( note to self : kill whomever was in charge of the previews for this film ) . 
i don't think i was quite prepared for this movie because the trailers made it appear to be some supernatural horror film about satan . 
well , it does contain this element , but what is not mentioned in the ads is the other plot elements ( and seemingly more interesting ones at that ) . 
the devil's advocate begins in florida with an ongoing trial in session . 
kevin lomax ( keanu reeves ) is the defense attorney , working for a client whom has been accused of raping a young girl . 
he ends up with a not-guilty verdict , despite an emotional testimony from the victim ( heather matarazzo ) . 
he leaves the courthouse with his lovely wife mary ann ( charlize theron ) where he is approached with an offer to travel to new york city to help choose a good jury . 
he accepts ( mainly after seeing the paycheck he will receive ) and he flies to new york with his wife . 
after proving his worth for selecting juries ( and his perfect winning streak in court ) , the head of the firm , john milton ( al pacino ) , asks him to work permanently as a criminal lawyer . 
he graciously accepts , where he is treated almost as a god . 
he is given an incredible apartment ( which is bigger than my entire house now ) , and a hefty paycheck . 
his life seems to be on the rise . 
and of course , his life suddenly begins to waver and slowly decline . 
he is attracted to fellow employee christabella ( connie nielson ) , and his wife begins to feel very lonely in her large apartment . 
mary ann takes up a friendship with a neighbor who always gives advice , especially if it is not wanted . 
meanwhile , kevin nabs a case surrounding alexander cullen ( craig t . nelson ) who apparently murdered three people . 
he spends hours upon hours with this case , while forgetting his loving wife , who may or may not be going insane . 
all of this while john milton may or may not be the devil himself . 
after a while , things turn completely upside-down , as kevin's wife claims to have seen monstrous images superimposed on her friends . 
a fellow employee is murdered in the park , and his mother ( judith ivey ) reveals information about kevin's real father . 
is it all just a big nightmare ? 
or is john milton really satan , playing tricks with kevin's life ? 
the devil's advocate plays out fairly straight-forward , but for some odd reason , the screenwriters wanted to surprise everyone by giving us something we don't expect . 
is this surprise conclusion supposed to make us feel good and go home without feeling depressed or disturbed ? 
if so , the devil's advocate messes up completely , and ironically , i felt more depressed because of the ending as is now , than i would have if it had ended ten minutes early . 
i went into the devil's advocate expecting a shocking horror film , and that is exactly what i got . 
i was settled in to be disturbed mentally and emotionally , and that is what i got . 
but what was the most disturbing and horrible aspect of the movie is the poor ending ( did i mention that i didn't like the ending ? ) . 
the producers of this film take you on a thrilling roller coaster ride and just as it is ending , they pull the rug out from under you . 
films like se7en and the usual suspects can survive with this surprise ending because it is expected , more or less . 
we know it is going to end in an unpredictable way . 
the devil's advocate , on the other hand , ends unpredictably , not from us knowing a lot , but knowing nothing at all . 
if that is confusing , i recommend watching the film , and then reading that again . 
as for the film overall , i enjoyed the entire first two hours , being drawn in by a terrific character study and then adding the supernatural plot to increase the tension build from the character study . 
the film runs like a well-built clock , slowly building until finally exploding with a highly charged climax ( and an unpredictable one at that ) . 
and then you settle in for a nice resolution , which does not occur . 
it was at this point that i felt cheated . 
taking us on a terror ride of intrigue , we follow kevin lomax around , as he is the centerpiece of the film . 
everything occurs from his perspective . 
he is our representation on screen ( sort of ) . 
but we are forced to witness a conclusion which makes most of the film seem like a game . 
i don't want to spoil the ending , so all i can say is go see the film and decide for yourself . 
perhaps the most shocking thing about the devil's advocate is the extreme amount of everything . 
it earned its r rating for a reason . 
there is plenty of nudity , sex , violence , gore , and then you have gore , violence , sex , and more nudity . 
this film really isn't subtle about anything , showing us everything . 
it actually surprises me that this film did not receive an nc-17 rating , as it is quite harsh . 
however , the movie does have its merits , and nudity and sex are among those . 
i don't condone sex and nudity in films , but if its there , i might as well enjoy it . 
the biggest merit of this film is also the most interesting to watch . 
the confrontations between kevin lomax and john milton are entertaining , but what stands out amidst this extreme hatred is the decline of the wife , mary ann . 
portrayed by the extremely effective charlize theron , mary ann's problems are incredibly intense , and i found myself wanting to witness her decline . 
this may sound uncaring , but i wanted to watch because i felt sorry for her . 
she is the most interesting character on the screen , who is forced into a world where she is not wanted . 
something the devil's advocate contained actually shocked me for reasons other than extreme violence and nudity , especially for a film of this nature . 
the story actually has something to say about humanity . 
in one of the last scenes , john milton explains to kevin lomax the game god plays with his children ( he is satan , of course ) . 
he comments that it is human nature to lust and loathe in vanity . 
then , god sets up rules which contradict human nature . 
this semi-religious bashing is more humorous than frightening . 
what milton says is so true about our society that i found myself laughing out loud , partially thinking it was funny , but patially realizing it was true . 
these moral dilemmas are present throughout the devil's advocate , giving it an added depth many films skip over in their writing ( but i'm sure they came straight from the novel it was based on ) . 
when a film has something to say about our society , it deserves to be watched . 
the cast of the devil's advocate is one of the highlights , as we see memorable faces , and they put spins on those memorable faces we don't expect . 
heather matarazzo makes a brief appearance as the terrorized victim in the opening court case , and she does a great job . 
probably the big surprise of this film is keanu reeves . 
he has proven himself an uneven actor ( successes such as speed and bombs such as johnny mnemonic ) , but he tops himself with this performance . 
i have never seen him more believable to date . 
al pacino is of course the scene stealer . 
his devilish performance is equal to those of jack nicholson ( the witches of eastwick ) and max von sydow ( needful things ) . 
he could have easily gone too far over the top in many scenes , but he remains completely believable ( if that is the correct term ) . 
jeffrey jones ( mostly known as the principal in ferris bueller's day off ) also gives a good performance as eddie barzoon . 
judith ivey manages a credible performance as the mother who holds a secret to kevin's past . 
connie nielson is very effective in her role , and she also appears naked several times . 
one familiar face with a twist was " coach " star , craig t . nelson , who gives a very good performance . 
the devil's advocate is rated r for sexuality , nudity , violence , language , and some gore . 
at 144 minutes , this film moves along fairly quickly . 
for the first two hours , i sat completely engaged in the good performances and strong characters . 
the technical quality is also remarkable , with great special effects and a good musical score . 
director taylor hackford has managed to create a very disturbing motion picture , only to ruin a good chunk of tension with the final fifteen minutes . 
i guess my biggest problem with the ending is the fact that i went into the theater expecting a disturbing film , and hackford gave me just that for a long time . 
but just before the end , he got jitterish and relied on the hollywood safety net in order to make his film more mainstream . 
personally , i would have preferred it ending fifteen minutes early . 
ingredients : down-on-his-luck evangelist , church 
synopsis : sonny dewey ( robert duvall ) is a tireless texas pentecostal preacher who unexpectedly catches his wife ( farrah fawcett ) in bed with another guy . 
in a regrettable crime of passion he takes a baseball bat to the guy's head , and suddenly finds himself a fugitive for murder , and estranged from his wife and two kids . 
to atone for his sins , sonny flees to a rural bayou town in louisiana and baptizes himself as a new creature - - the apostle e . f . as the apostle e . f . sonny's main mission is to revive an abandoned church community and preach the gospel at the local radio station . 
soon he sets about resurrecting the one way road to heaven holiness temple . 
but sonny knows his time is short ; one day the police will find him . 
opinion : this movie is a thought-provoking look at an evangelist in real life terms . 
i believe that robert duvall ( who is the producer , director , writer , and main star of the apostle ) deserves an oscar for his performance as sonny the religious crusader - - a performance which is so complex and realistic it ranks as one of the finest acting performances on film . 
duvall's portrayal of a true believer is authentic , superb , and inspired ; it offers the audience a completely honest look at southern religion , as well as a portrait of a fallible , complicated man driven by his beliefs . 
incidentally , in real life duvall was just as 'driven' in getting the project underway . 
since no major hollywood studio wanted to risk financing a complex movie about an evangelist , the apostle as a project lay dormant for almost 13 years before duvall was able to get it done , paying for its production with his own money ( about five million dollars ) . 
in terms of hard-hitting realism and character portrayal the apostle would rank as one of the best movies of this decade , and i emphatically recommend the apostle for connoisseurs of stage and fine acting on film . 
similarly , those with a steep background in pentecostal christianity would find the apostle a thought-provoking experience . 
on the other hand , the apostle's main strength - - duvall's preaching - - is also what limits the apostle's target audience . 
in terms of plot and pure entertainment value , the apostle is definitely not for everyone . 
teenagers , action fans , comedy fans , and people who find church completely boring should stay far away from this movie , since three quarters of the film is watching sonny preach at church . 
in other words , the apostle is a four star performance , but with a very limited audience . 
the most amazing thing about paul cox's innocence is how unlike a movie it is . 
i mean that as the highest compliment . 
if most studios were to profile an elderly couple who rekindle a 40-year-old romance , i'd want to run and hide . 
the sex scenes would be handled as a farce , producers would shed 20 years off the characters' ages ( so susan sarandon and harrison ford could star ) and true love would shine through any obstacle without explanation and consequence . 
along with a charming romantic story , the australian/belgian innocence shows how an increasing sense of mortality combined with revisiting the past while being entrenched in the present can make something that seems so right seem downright questionable . 
the romance gets started when former musician andreas ( charles " bud " tingwell ) , learns that his true love , claire ( julia blake ) , lives nearby . 
they decide to catch up on old times , but soon find themselves in a reinvigorating affair . 
complicating matters is andreas' frail health , and claire's longtime husband ( terry norris ) , who can't understand why he's suddenly become obsolete . 
in my mind , the movie is less about the relationship between andreas and claire , than the feelings of everyone involved . 
john , claire's husband , endlessly questions what he did wrong . 
claire initially insists she's a grown-up , but admittedly behaves like a child , a prospect that thrills and disappoints her . 
andreas , an agnostic , begins to question his fate , a message cox delivers in a memorable dream sequence . 
cox litters the movie with flashbacks , including the repeated vision of a roaring train . 
it's a reminder of andreas and claire's past love ( as young lovers , they met by train ) , but as it recurs , we get the feeling that the past and the present have clashed . 
a pall is cast on the whole affair . 
a master of the understated , cox strings together a series of memorable moments . 
in andreas' dream sequence , amidst the roar of the train and conversations , we get the whole picture of andreas and claire's love . 
we also get glimpses into john and claire's relationship . 
during a silent candlelit dinner shortly afterward , claire admits to john about her indiscretion , telling more than any monologue could . 
all that's heard is the scraping of forks against plates . 
the characters are unlike anything i've seen -- they're people . 
so many times , movies and especially television portray senior citizens as gratingly spunky . 
or they're reduced to comedic buffoons . 
ordinary people with a pile of emotions , claire and andreas aren't sure what the next step is . 
they do want to be happy , which consists of an entirely different set of conditions than what they've known throughout their adult lives . 
bravo to cox , who wrote the script , for not making john a monster , so that claire's affair is automatically justified . 
norris is so effective as john that he makes andreas and claire's love difficult to accept . 
we feel for him . 
he's a decent man . 
sure , he may have become complacent , but he never expected this , especially now . 
with so much presented to the audience , it's only expected that the material gets a little drawn out and repetitive , which it does . 
however , in bringing up tough questions and not offering easy answers , cox displays a skill and ? lan isn't likely to be surpassed by anyone anytime soon . 
contact is a film that tries to do several different things . 
it is intended to present a realistic picture of what alien contact might be like , to restore a sense of wonder and mystery to the issue of extraterrestrial life , to raise questions about science and faith and how they would be relevant in such a situation , and to tell a personal story of a romance between the astronomer dr . ellie arroway ( jodie foster ) and the religious spokesman palmer joss ( matthew mcconaughey ) . 
the film succeeds wonderfully at its first two goals . 
the portrayal of the communication from an alien world is much more reasonable ( albeit less immediately engaging ) than , say , the cold-blooded destructiveness of the invaders in independence day or even the complex process of abductions and genetic hybridization that forms the ongoing plot line of tv's the x-files . 
the aliens in contact seem to be like us-they are more curious than anything else . 
they know we exist , they want us to know that they exist , and they would like to make the next step and communicate in person . 
the film wisely refrains from showing us the aliens directly , and between the characters' ongoing speculation about the extraterrestrials and the outstanding visuals in the climactic yet enigmatic scene when arroway arrives on the alien world , that sense of wonder and mystery comes through with a force rarely seen since stanley kubrick's 2001 : a space odyssey . 
most of the film , however , takes place on earth , where there is an extended public debate on how to respond to these aliens . 
scientists are enthusiastic , ultraconservative religious leaders are wary , and government officials are caught somewhere in between . 
the debate is fueled largely by dr . arroway's atheism ; she seems the obvious choice to pilot the spacecraft for which the aliens have provided blueprints , but many are wary of sending an atheist as humankind's representative to another species . 
the film is partly successful in raising and exploring these questions , especially when it reaches a conclusion that suggests that the two approaches - science and faith - could be viewed as complementary rather than diametrically opposed . 
still , the film falls a little short in its representation of this conflict as it exists in american society . 
the two " sides " are represented primarily by arroway and by far-right fundamentalists , but in reality probably 80% of americans are neither atheists nor far-right fundamentalists . 
palmer joss occupies something of a middle ground , but he ultimately becomes distracted by personal motives and comes across as a less-than-ideal spokesman for any ideology . 
then again , the film does concentrate mostly on public debate , which does , after all , tend to be dominated by extremists , rather than on dinner-table or college-dormitory discussions . 
contact is accurate in its portrayal of these issues , then , but only within the narrow scope to which it confines itself . 
the film's one clear failure is in the portrayal of the romance between arroway and joss . 
for one thing , it resorts to the tired movie clich * that two attractive people will immediately fall in love as soon as they appear on the screen together , as there does not seem to be any other reason for their instant mutual attraction . 
the romance rarely , if ever , sheds any light on the characters , although it occasionally tries and fails - joss's explanation that he quit the priesthood because of the celibacy requirement ( " i guess you could say i'm a man of the cloth , but without the cloth " ) , for example , is more like a punchline to a joke than character development . 
instead , the romance mostly seems to exist for the sake of later plot developments . 
granted , this is a plot- and idea-driven film and the characters are secondary , but this just seemed like laziness on the writers' part more than anything else . 
the successes of contact , however , far outweigh its failures . 
even if the social commentary had fizzled altogether ( which it didn't ) , the simple yet mysterious story of alien communication still would have made it a memorable film . 
contact doesn't quite cover all the bases , but it covers about as much as one could hope for in a two-hour film , and its rejection of big-budget theatrics for a more realistic story is certainly admirable . 
and i would not be surprised if , ten years from now , contact is mentioned in the same breath as 2001 and blade runner as one of the finest examples of sophisticated and intellectually relevant science fiction . 
billy bob thornton , who had a sudden rise to fame with 1996's sling blade after spending years as a virtually unknown actor and writer , is becoming one of the most versatile - and most accomplished - american actors around at the moment . 
as jacob , the simple but at times very bright loser brother of bill paxton's hank , thornton gives a performance which should leave an indelible mark on all but the most hardened viewers . 
three men , hank ( paxton ) , jacob ( thornton ) and their friend lou ( brent briscoe ) stumble upon a plane wreck which , upon closer inspection , yields a rotting corpse and a bag full of money . 
jacob and lou want to pocket the cash . 
hank , the smarter - and perhaps more naive - of the three , insists on leaving the money for the authorities to find . 
eventually , they agree to keep the cash safe until the plane is found , and then split the money three ways . 
things start going wrong , though , with greed and violence weaving their ways through their plan . 
disaster is sure to strike . 
director sam raimi , of the evil dead and darkman fame , has made an excellent and thought-provoking film , worlds away from the comic horror films which made his name . 
while there are a couple of moments which might remind one of his earlier work , raimi has made an intelligent and mature departure which will hopefully be a sign of even greater films to come . 
scott b . smith's screenplay , based on his novel ( which i haven't read ) is a fine example of escalating tension . 
while it does remind one of danny boyle's shallow grave without the abundance of black humour , it keeps the drama that should really be a part of such a story on morality , or the lack thereof , found in a film with this subject matter . 
alar kivilo's cinematography reminds one of joel and ethan coen's fargo , with the bleak , snowy landscape almost becoming another character . 
danny elfman also does well with his moody , finely-written score . 
if there's a flaw in the film , it's that it goes on for just a little too long . 
just when we think that they are about to wrap things up , raimi and smith decide to let the film go on a little further . 
while this isn't really a bad thing , it did become a little frustrating at times ( this may have been due to the fact that i had consumed a large sprite beforehand ) . 
the performances are excellent , with the usually annoying paxton in fine form and bridget fonda giving a scene-stealing turn as hank's scheming wife . 
this is an excellent showcase for thornton's fine skills as an actor and a great change in direction for raimi , who could very well have a career ahead of him as an accomplished director of dramatic films . 
fingers crossed , though , that this doesn't stop him from making another evil dead sequel . 
tibet has entered the american consciousness slowly during the past few years and burst into the forefront recently . 
the dalai lama has made speaking tours , tibetan designs and artifacts are showing up in shops , the plight of the people has captured the imagination of major actors and artists and now there are two big budget films within as many months . 
 " kundun " ( " presence " , a name the monks call the young dalai lama ) opens in 1937 with the search for the 14th incarnation of the tibetan leader . 
a group of monks enters a village and a two-year-old child catches their attention . 
the young boy proves himself by identifying possessions of the previous holy man as " mine " . 
he and his family are then moved to a monastery in lhassa where he is to be prepared to take his position as the religious and political leader of the country . 
he is forced into difficult decisions when china invades the country in 1950 . 
the peaceful and isolated country is ill-equipped to fight off the intruders and diplomatic attempts over the next years yield no results . 
eventually he must make the painful choice to flee to neighboring india . 
comparisons to " seven years in tibet " are inevitable . 
both films cover much of the same ground although the earlier movie does so from a westerner's point of view and features boxoffice draw brad pitt . 
 " kundun " features only native actors and is more of an insider's story . 
in some ways , this makes this film a superior concept , but it lacks the movement and spark that made " seven years " such an audience-pleaser . 
the actors contribute to the realistic feel of the movie ( filmed in morocco for obvious reasons ) . 
the only disappointment is chairman mao who looks like a wax dummy and moves as if he were a computer-generated character . 
on an intellectual level , it is interesting to see how two different approaches handle the same facts . 
some events are depicted differently and pitt's austrian mountain-climber who was portrayed as a pivotal influence in the dalai lama's life isn't even mentioned here . 
glossed over in " seven years " , the problems with the tibetan political system is hinted at here as the dalai lama muses " we were just about to change things " after the chinese attack . 
the film is magnificently beautiful thanks primarily to the cinematography of roger deakins . 
his lingering camera shows the exotic tibetan culture with luscious detail . 
especially striking is an extreme moving close up of a sand mandala grain by grain . 
the visual treats more than make up for the movie's faults creating a poetic meditation for the audience . 
walking out of the theater you feel like you have awakened from a transcendental experience . 
martin scorsese , known for his dark tales of the underworld ( " goodfellas " , " taxi driver " , " casino " ) has shifted gears . 
something of a thematic follow-up to his " the last temptation of christ " , this is his slowest film yet . 
oddly enough for a director with a history of graphic violence presenting a history filled with atrocities by the chinese , most of these events take place off-screen . 
his decision to not over-explain rituals is commendable . 
the stumbling oracle who spits out his prophecies while in a trance state is much more effective as a mystery than if we were spoon-fed interpretations . 
philip glass's score is impressive although at times it is too overwhelming and distracting . 
i talked to a tibetan i met outside the theater who had just seen the film and was walking back in to see it again . 
hearing his description of how he escaped from tibet at the age of seven and how his father was one of the soldiers accompanying the dalai lama during his trip to india , i was struck by what was missing in the movie . 
as grand as it looks and as historically accurate as it is , there is a distance between the audience and the movie . 
the film is more concerned with visuals and history and less so with human beings . 
with the exception of a few scenes , involvement with the characters is slight . 
one of those exceptions is the portrayal of the young dalai lama , shown as a mischievous boy who can't resist being a kid sometimes . 
an encounter with his older brother thubten j . norbu ( a retired indiana university professor ) who tells the young leader the chinese have ordered him to persuade him to accept communist rule or kill him is an outstanding moment , but there aren't many of these . 
even with its problems , the " kundun " experience is phenomenal , but one that i fear most will miss . 
many people who saw " seven years in tibet " will have a " been there , done that " attitude . 
it's likely that the film will miss a wide-spread appeal and public response will be the sound of one hand clapping . 
i swear i have seen the edge before . 
in fact , it reminded me of the bear , the river wild , and other various films mixed into an entirely different film . 
however , the edge has done something that most action films should do , and that is add heart and characters we like to the plot . 
in doing so , the edge draws many more suspenseful moments out of cliched scenes than , say , the peacemaker . 
unfortunately , because of those overused moments , we can pretty much guess the outcome of the film . 
but leave it to screenwriter david mamet to add humor and a few surprises to mess with your head . 
one surprise , in particular , left me smiling just because mamet actually had the guts to add it to his script . 
action films are a dime a dozen in hollywood , and while they are somewhat successful at entertaining us , they lack the one thing which would make them a more respected genre : intelligence . 
even horror films have learned this , a genre which is probably the least respected of them all . 
the river wild was one of the best action/suspense films i have seen from the 90s . 
the intelligence of the screenplay , and the suspense drawn from the realistic characters is nearly unmatched to this day . 
the edge has the intelligence and smart characters , but this time the lack of originality is the downfall . 
i must admit that it was very suspenseful , and had an original third half , but the first hour and a half is riddled with cliches and plot holes . 
this is an example of the final act saving the film , instead of the other way around ( as in the lost world ) . 
if only the screenplay had maintained the final thirty minutes' intensity , it could have become a great action film ( and i use the term loosely ) . 
the edge is pretty much a survival-of-the-fittest film . 
but taking scream's lead , the edge makes fun of the genre's cliches , and then uses them ( though not quite as effectively ) . 
charles morse ( anthony hopkins ) is the main character , a rich and very intelligent man who wonders what the accumulation of all this knowledge has brought to him . 
for once , we don't immediately care for the main character . 
instead , we like bob ( alec baldwin ) , a photographer who is going to take pictures of charles' wife , mickey ( elle macpherson ) , out in the wilderness . 
they board a plane and head to a cabin somewhere in the arctic . 
charles' birthday is the same day , and he receives a gold watch from his wife , and a pocket knife from bob . 
as action films go , these items do have importance to the rest of the story , but quite a bit more than we first expect . 
soon , however , bob wants to find a native to shoot pictures of because of his " personality . " 
charles , bob , bob's assistant steve ( harold perrineau ) , and the pilot head off to find him , and as shown in the previews , hit a flock of birds flying south for the winter . 
down the plane goes , the pilot is killed , and the three are left to survive in the wilderness . 
director lee tamahori is aware of the silly plot which is about to follow , and therefore has to create original ways to approach the situations . 
he succeeds often enough for us to enjoy the film . 
take , for instance , the entire man-hunting bear plot . 
this has been done many times in films with different animals , and even bears . 
but given the charles' intelligence , and bob's uncertainty , many of the cliches are given fresh twists . 
even charles himself seems to have seen these action films before . 
my favorite line of the film comes from charles : " most people die in the wilderness because they didn't do the one thing that could save their life . . . 
thinking . " 
despite the predictability of the main plot , a subplot develops late in the film which took me by surprise , and made me smile when i realized that everything isn't as it seems anymore . 
i have to write cautiously as to not reveal this surprise , so instead i will avoid it entirely . 
the first two-thirds of the edge have many humorous moments to push it along , and some of charles' survival techniques seem possible , even making fire from ice . 
tamahori is able to create a lot of suspense from the stalking bear , but whenever the bear is present , the characters lose all sensibility . 
i have always wondered why characters in films walk over a log to get across water . 
why not do what an intelligent person would and crawl across ? 
i guess getting chased by a bear makes your thought process turn off for a while . 
thankfully , we already have begun to care for the characters , and so we let this small detail slide . 
but some of the technical details are awkward , such as the nice stitching done on the fur coat that charles and bob make ( where did they get thread and needles ? ) . 
the acting of the film is highly above average for a film of this nature , and borders on phenomenal . 
anthony hopkins gives a terrific performance , creating his most likeable and layered character since remains of the day . 
hopkins usually brings greatness to his roles , but here he exceeds at gaining the audiences' sympathy , something he definitely did not do in silence of the lambs . 
alec baldwin gives one of his best performances i have ever seen ( it sure is better from his fair game ) . 
baldwin can be a good or a bad character , and here he succeeds at both in a way . 
you can never quite guess if he is a nice or a vllainous character until the end , and baldwin is able to handle the double-natured photographer . 
elle macpherson gives a good performance , albeit slight . 
she isn't in the film all that much , but for the scenes she does have , she handles as an actress , not as a model . 
harold perrineau is a good actor , and his scenes are nice and underplayed . 
he is eliminated early , and i reveal nothing by saying this because it is inevitable and predictable . 
the edge is rated r for graphic violence , some gore , and language . 
some of the violence is a little too disturbing , even for me . 
this film is a nice change from the mindless action most of us are used to , but too many cliches bog it down . 
director tamahori has created a very smooth and suspenseful action film out of recycled parts . 
david mamet's script , though , has a lot of humor to keep the first hour afloat , and the acting is solid . 
the best thing about the script is the ending which doesn't end with the normal high-strung action sequence , but with a small detail involving a certain gift . 
it's a nice touch considering what we have had to go through with the bear . 
and by the way , most people laughed when the film faded to black due to a large credit to bart the bear . 
way to go , bart . 
one of the more unusual and suggestively violent films ever made , " se7en " is just a few steps away from brilliance . 
however , those few steps away are only a few steps from a level of evil and depravity that few people want to discuss . 
the film received mixed reviews upon release , but there's an underlying sinister appeal and intrigue to this that many critics perhaps did not notice . 
at times it gets preachy about the horrors it seems to be criticizing , but the script and the ultimate pay-off are excellent . 
the shocking conclusion is just as unpredictable as the endings of most films are predictable . 
this piece of work is 100% intensity . 
it's uncomfortable to watch , yet compelling . 
 " i want not to look , yet i cannot turn away . " 
the story creeps along slowly and deliberately , crafted by visionary director david fincher . 
he has experience in tantalizing his audience with information and visions , but not giving away too much too soon . 
this is the guy who directed the ominous " alien 3 " . 
 " se7en " is even more ominous because the threat is real . 
it's human and , while the script takes some artistic licence , the way in which the diabolical killer works here is actually realistic . 
that is , if a human being could be so intelligent , patient , wealthy , and disillusioned . 
after the most bizarre opening credits i've ever seen ( refreshingly different in editing style and musical accompaniment ) , the initial character development takes place . 
morgan freeman stars as detective william somerset , a knowledgeable veteran who is ready to give up on his job and the sickness of society . 
brad pitt co-stars as detective david mills , the young hotshot who is brand new to this unnamed city and full of fury to catch the bad guys . 
these two fine actors give the film its human qualities ( along with the appealing gwyneth paltrow , who plays tracy , mills' wife ) . 
however , none of them stands out above the material . 
no disrespect intended , but two other actors could have played these parts and the film probably would have been about the same . 
an ironic note is that somerset has only a week ( or 7 , that's seven , days ) left on the force to train his young protege . 
the title of the picture also refers to the 7 deadly sins , as chronicled by john milton in " paradise lost " --gluttony , greed , sloth , lust , pride , envy , & wrath . 
incidentally , i wrote the sins in order of how each victim was found . 
it's the last two sins that are the most intriguing and shocking , but i won't give that away . 
as i said , this has a great ending and no one should spoil it . 
anyway , the brilliant killer sets out to make a statement to the world that these sins will no longer be tolerated and he makes the " sinners " suffer for it . 
the two partners stumble over the corpse of a grotesquely obese man . 
they learn that he was murdered--forced to eat himself to death . 
the killer leaves small clues at this and other murders and , of course , somerset and mills are smart enough to stay with him all the way . 
if they didn't , it would be one short movie ! 
the deliberate pace allows for craftsmanship of detail and story . 
we see a lot of blood , but it's not especially violent . 
the suggestion of what happens is far more disgusting than anything actually shown--like most of the violence in " pulp fiction " . 
 " se7en " is gory , graphic , and disturbing , but all the gore is post-death . 
still , if you tend to get queasy , don't eat food during this film . 
kevin spacey plays john doe , the avenging angel who claims that he's the messenger who will right the wrongs with his teachings . 
like many crazy men , he has some fine ideas , but some sick ways of expressing himself . 
spacey doesn't appear until the final 30 minutes and also doesn't receive billing in the opening credits . 
however , it's his appearance that turns this film upside down and for that he should have gotten an oscar nomination . 
a great villain manages to make you either root for him or feel compelled to listen to his ramblings regardless of whether you agree with him or not . 
this character is so well written that it's hard to disagree when he says that what he is doing will be remembered by everyone . 
no serial killer has ever been so creative . 
 " se7en " is blatantly unsubtle with its messages about the horrors of the world and it's often a little too depressing . 
what it lacks in those areas , it makes up for with believable dialogue , top-notch screenwriting , unexpected twists , and realistic characters . 
the technical aspects of the film are unobtrusive . 
fincher uses lighting , music , and editing quite well , but his story is always the thrust of the film . 
fortunately , we don't find out what happens to mills and somerset after the closing credits ( which are run backwards up the screen ! ) . 
it's better to imagine what paths they will follow . 
this is not the kind of film you turn away from and quickly forget . 
it's got a sinister message and john doe is right about one thing--the evils of the world aren't going to cure themselves . 
 " se7en " raises some tough questions and it's intelligent enough to allow its audience to answer many of those questions for themselves . 
useless trivia--co-stars in 1995's " se7en " , brad pitt and kevin spacey also competed for the 1995 best supporting actor oscar--pitt in " 12 monkeys " , spacey in " the usual suspects " ( for which he won ) . 
there are some works of art that are almost impossible to review , not because of their own complexity , but because of their legendary status which prevents the reviewer to say anything original . 
one of such masterpieces is casablanca , probably not the best film in the history of the seventh art , but definitely the most popular one . 
its popularity can be measured not in a multitude of more or less disguised remakes that were made in more than half a century since its premiere , but also in countless tributes and references that movie makers use in their works to this day . 
casablanca is also a movie that has the very rare virtue of both being praised by the critics and loved by general audience . 
one of the things that makes this film even more unique was the fact that it was doomed to fail , at least judging by conventional movie-making wisdom of its time . 
it was based on a broadway play so mediocre that it hadn't been produced on stage ; screenplay by three writers - julius g . epstein , philip j . epstein and howard koch - was beeing written as shooting went along ; the main actors were producers' second choice , and , finally , man behind camera , michael curtiz was considered to be capable , but not great director . 
however , the movie was commercially successful and earned three " oscars " , including the one for the best film . 
until this very day , it is considered to be the best example of hollywood film- making in its own golden age . 
the plot of the movie was heavily influenced by the needs of ww2 propaganda , yet it also used rather complicated and now almost forgotten political circumstances of that global conflict in order to make intriguing story . 
in december 1941 , casablanca , exotic port on the atlantic coast of north africa is controlled by officially neutral , yet nazi-collaborating french vichy government . 
thousands of refugees from war-torn europe are stuck there on the way to lisbon and safety of america , and ready to pay any price for precious exit visas . 
many shady characters thrive on their misery , including the corrupt police chief , captain renault ( rains ) . 
his best friend is rick blaine ( bogart ) , who used to be idealistic anti-fascist , and now owns popular night club in casablanca and lives by his own cynical philosophy of " sticking his neck for nobody " . 
however , everything changes when he gets in possession of two precious extra visas . 
this event coincides with the arrival of two new refugees to casablanca . 
one of them is victor laszlo ( henreid ) , czech resistance leader who escaped three times from nazi concentration camps and became the legend of enslaved europe . 
he is accompanied by his beautiful wife ilsa lund ( bergman ) , with whom rick had a stormy affair in the eve of nazi occupation of paris . 
the couple needs visas , especially because of the gestapo major strasser ( veidt ) being on their trail . 
rick is now forced to choose between love , wounded pride , self-preserving interest and his own hatred of fascism . 
the casting for this movie seems influenced by divine inspiration - humphrey bogart , most legendary actor in the history of cinema , is one of the rare character actors who elevated his persona to the star status . 
bogart's portrayal of rick as complicated man , torn between idealistic past and bitter present , was so perfect , that his icon would forever be connected with that character . 
another icon in his company is ingrid bergman , great actress of old hollywood , here in her artistic and visual prime . 
the cinematic coupling of bogart and bergman became one of the main symbols of that era of filmmaking - some happier times when the romance on the screen didn't look childish nor trite like in some more contemporary works . 
for many people , casablanca is probably the best romantic film ever made . 
but the reason for that isn't the romance itself - it's the realistic story of people forced to make tough , and often wrong choices in their life . 
the casting of casablanca was right on target not just in a case of main leads . 
the supporting actors also did a marvellous job . 
sidney longstreet and peter lorre were here mainly to give a mystic flavour spotted in a previous bogart classic - john huston's maltese falcon ; yet both of them managed to portray colourful and original characters . 
another shining example of good casting is now almost forgotten paul henreid as the weakest part of love triangle ; character of victor laszlo has believable charisma and looks like a somebody who could inspire millions of people to rise against nazi tiranny . 
unfortunately , the charisma that burdened laszlo , leaves little place for difficult choice , making his character forever overshadowed by rick/ilsa coupling . 
however , rick and ilsa actually have a serious competiton for most memorable character in casablanca . 
captain renault , brilliantly portrayed by claude rains in a role of a lifetime , was embodiment of perfect , almost unmatched balance between ethical corruption and physical charm . 
despite being the undoubtful villain in almost entire movie , rains managed to make renault sympathetic character , and his final conversion to the side of good , symbolized in not so subtle gesture at the end of movie looked unnecessary . 
rains also gave another dimension to the movie , making it even more ambiguous ; people who like to analyse movies to death discovered signs of homosexuality in renault's relationship towards rick , and rick's final words leave room for even more outrageous speculations . 
together with well-drawn characters and exciting story , the movie was good in creating his own atmosphere . 
professional nitpickers would probably have a field day in discovering numerous historical and geographical inaccuracies , but casablanca is still a shining example of hollywood ww2 movie that is beliavable , if not realistic . 
any way , even if we don't see it as a historical document , casablanca is movie that can be source of entertainment as well as infinite inspiration . 
like the great musical pieces of mozart himself , amadeus is a true work of art . 
it is one of those few movies of the 80's that will be known for its class , its style , and its intelligence . 
why is this such a good film ? 
there are almost too many reasons to explain . 
the story : court composer salieri ( f . 
murray abraham ) feels waves of different emotions going through his head as wolfgang amadeus mozart ( tom hulce ) comes into his life as the young genius composer . 
salieri feels envy , and jealousy , but at the same time is fascinated with mozart's brilliance and ingenious . 
we travel through mozart's life as a composer , through his struggles , his triumphs , and ultimately , his demise . 
the acting : abraham is magnificient as salieri ; his acting range enables him to focus on each individual emotion and express it through his speech and body language . 
this performance earned him a well deserved oscar . 
tom hulce is interesting as well as mozart , a quirky , annoying bratty kid with an annoying laugh . 
he's strong , but weak at the same time , and must be aided by his wife ( elizabeth berridge ) , who is good in her role , but lacks dramatic depth . 
jeffrey jones , in a smaller , more dignified role than such roles in stay tuned and mom and dad save the world , is cast perfectly because of his noble charm . 
the movie : every element of this movie works . 
the costumes and makeup are very memorable , as well as its stunning art direction , and unforgettable scores ( adapted from mozart's original music ) . 
while wolfgang amadeus mozart was a genius at music , milos forman proves with his film that he is a genius of filmmaking . 
this movie is a classic that will be remembered for years to come . 
ad2am " i almost lost my nose . . . and 
i like it . 
i like breathing through it . " 
-jack nicholson , chinatown 
armageddon , in itself , symbolizes everything that is wrong in modern filmmaking . 
stories have been replaced with special effects ; character development gets overshadowed by bad dialogue ; plotting consists of a bunch of shit getting blown up . 
armageddon is as stupid , as loud and as shallow as any movie you'll see come out this summer , or maybe even any other summer . 
but i loved every freaking minute of it . 
believe me , i'm just as shocked as you are . 
hell , i don't even know why i went to see it in the first place . 
the previews were so annoying that i predicted this was going to be the worst film of the year , or at least in the running . 
i'm sorry , but " somebody dial 911 ! ! ! " 
isn't quite the tagging that's going to sell a movie . 
it isn't too wise either to market the film using the movie's stupidest lines ( " beam me up scotty " - yeah , that sure is great writing . . . ) . 
i mean , let's face it ; armageddon's previews rival the truman show's as being some of the worst of the year . 
neither of them even come close to doing their respective films justice . 
of course , you all know the story . 
when the earth is threatened with total annihilation via an asteroid the size of texas , nasa calls in the us's top oil drillers ( ! ) to go into space ( ! ) and implant a nuclear device eight-hundred and someodd feet into the asteroid ( ! ) . 
in the coarse of all this mayhem , we are introduced to some interesting - and not so interesting - characters . 
belonging to the former group is rockhound ( steve buscemi ) , a horny little womanizing genius who's always full of wisecracks , even when flying into space at a huge amount of g's . 
also , there's the always cool-as-hell billy bob thornton as dan truman , the bigwig at nasa who recruits all the drillers . 
he kind of reminded me of ed harris in apollo 13 , only without the intensity and great lines to deliver . 
then on the flip side of the coin is the tired , contrived character of harry stamper ( bruce willis , who does the whole movie employing with annoying accent i can't quite place ) , the leader of the pack as well as liv tyler and ben affleck as the token lovers you must have in any summer movie . 
basically , that's about it . 
as i said , this is hardly a film about plot . 
it's another summer blockbuster with plot points that are beyond unbelievable and dialogue and characters that are mostly completely wooden . 
case in point : nasa doesn't know that there is even an asteroid on it's way until eighteen days before impact - huh ? 
another example : at one point in the movie , two children are playing with toy space shuttles in front of a poster of kennedy . 
how pretentious is that ? ? ? ! ! ! 
want another one ? 
okay ; before the oil drillers blast off into space , one of them starts singing " leaving on a jet plane " , and soon , all the rest join in . 
did michael bay attend the school of sappy filmmaking before he made this picture ? 
but naturally , all this sappiness , melodrama and special effects accumulate to one bitchin' time at the movies . 
and don't get me wrong - despite all of the things i found wrong with armageddon , i still very much enjoyed it . 
so even if you don't win one of mcdonald's free tickets , it's still definitely worth checking out . 
this is one of the most funny and entertaining comedies of the year and it just happens to be animated . 
there are some great voice over commentaries from hollywood's most famous celebrities , some fabulous animation and a compelling story . 
this is the best we've seen from disney since " beauty and the beast " ( 1996 ) . 
this film begins an unspecified time following the happily-ever-after conclusion to toy story . 
in the aftermath of their earlier adventures , buzz ( voice of tim allen ) and woody ( voice of tom hanks ) are now fast friends and all the toys live in perfect harmony , content with their " lives " . 
one day , andy broke woody's arm off , while playing with him . 
woody is now officially discarged and worthless , left with his nightmares , where he lies in a trash can with the other discards . 
later andy's mother decides to have a yard sale , and she collects a few old toys from her son's room . 
since one of these discards is a member of the moving toy gang , woody goes to the rescue , leaving the safety of the house for the uncertainty of the front lawn in order to bring the toy back . 
although his mission is successful , he is placed in a serious predicament when a toy collector named al ( voice of wayne knight ) spies woody while hunting through the wares available at the sale . 
the cowboy toy represents the final collectible needed to complete his collection of merchandise from the old tv series , " woody's roundup . " 
if he can acquire woody , al can ship everything to a toy museum in japan for a huge profit . 
so , after andy's mother refuses to sell the wooden cowboy , al steals him , and it's up to the other toys , led by buzz , to go into the city to save their friend . 
and so , buzz , rex ( voice of wallace shawn ) , hamm ( voice of john ratzenberger ) , mr . potatohead ( voice of don rickles ) , and slinky ( voice of jim varney ) , go out on a dangerous journey to rescue their friend , they find themselves confronting things like busy streets and other buzz lightyear toys . 
there are car chases , gun fights and finally the confrontation between buzz and his nemesis ( who , by the way , resembles darth vader ) . 
meanwhile , woody learns that he was once a tv celebrity and has a family - a cowgirl named jessie ( voice of joan cusack ) , a horse named bullseye , and a father figure called the prospector ( voice of kelsey grammar ) . 
they offer him another life , as a celebrity -- a toy in a museum in japan . 
he is now forced to choose between being loved intensively by andy for a little while ( before he grows up ) and be forgotten , or be admired by children for generations . 
the problem is , if woody escapes from al's clutches and returns home , they will end up back in the lonely darkness of storage . 
a real effort is made in the technical department . 
the animation is rich and colorful , with lots of wonderful details . the " cinematography " is also extremely improved since toy story ; there are a lot of complicated swings , turns and close-ups that really make an impression . 
lighting and filters are used to create a mood ( as in a surprisingly emotional moment - jessie's remembrance of her days when she was a beloved toy ) the film contains a lot of in-side jokes ( such as the one about videogames ) , and entertaining parodies on " jurassic park " and " star wars " . 
the film ends with the " failed takes " , the kind of scenes that we are used to see after comedy shows on tv . 
these outtakes are some of the funniest scenes in the film . 
but what in the end makes " toy story 2 " a memorable experience is not the jokes , its multiple parodies or marvelous animation . 
it is its heart and emotions -- the story about the meaning of friendship , love and even life itself . 
it is not difficult to predict that " toy story 2 " would be a huge economical success , but its artistic achievement was unexpected . 
unexpected because the first film wasn't much more than a demonstration of special effects . 
but mostly it was unexpected because disney hasn't produced anything spectacular in years and is constantly surpassed by companies such as dreamworks and warner brs . 
but here the director has changed the atmosphere of the film , making it more accessible and interesting for persons older that 9 years . 
this is a big step-away from the ancient laws of disney-animation . 
off course , this is not " antz " , it is not as intelligent ; this is not a landmark and no masterpiece , but i promise that you'll find it as funny and enjoyable as i have . 
whether this is the best animated film of the year , i dare not say . 
my choice would probably be " the iron giant " , but ( along side with " american pie " ) this is the comedy of the year . 
i almost lost my hopes for disney , but " toy story 2 " proves that disney hasn't lost their ability to entertain . 
not too many people know who james whale is , but it's a safe bet that a good chunk of them have seen his movies . 
if we are to believe the semi- biographical gods and monsters , whale would have wanted it to be that way . 
this is an insightful , haunting exploration of the last days of the frankenstein and bride of frankenstein director , and it is notable for introducing one of the first complicated gay characters in a hollywood movie . 
gods and monsters has no interest in being a biopic of whale's life because it tracks only the final few days of his life , and it's probably a better movie for it . 
it's focus is on whale's ( ian mckellen ) untraditional and deceptive lust for heterosexual gardener clayton boone ( brendan fraser ) . 
it begins with whale ( a fairly talented artist , aside from being a director ) asking boone to " sit for him , " ( pose for a portrait ) . 
at first , boone doesn't realize that whale is gay and grows fascinated with the old man . 
when he does discover whale's sexual orientation from his dedicated and protective maid ( lynn redgrave ) , he is frightened , refusing to sit for the guy . 
but he comes back , only to storm out again , disgusted with whale's " locker room talk . " 
boone returns yet another time , after whale promises to tone down the aforementioned " locker room talk , " and finds their platonic relationship to be strengthening . 
meanwhile , jimmy himself is suffering from hallucinations and mental attacks as a result of his stroke not long ago . 
his ailment leads to desperation and depression , which build to the point where he is forced to ask boone for an incredulously big favor . 
what is perhaps most sensational about gods and monsters is brendan fraser's bravura performance ; up until seeing this film i intensely disliked the young actor because of his tendency to ruin the movies he is in ( blast from the past , for example ) . 
i was surprised how expressive an actor he proved himself to be here . 
this is impressive because his character's dialogue is minimal , with mckellan doing most of the talking . 
that requires fraser to act through body language ; a difficult skill to master , but something he proves capable of doing well . 
this is not to ignore mckellan's oscar nominated turn . 
he earned that nomination with his touching performance here ( although , at the risk of sounding like a philistine , i would have chosen his performance as the nazi in apt pupil for the nomination ) ; an understated , compelling gem . 
whale dreaded being remembered solely for his work in the hollywood horror genre , and he thought hollywood to be the equivalent of a battlefield . 
he rejoiced in being free from it , only reluctantly going to receptions with fellow movie people . 
in the end , perhaps , it is what killed him : the memories of hollywood and war blending together to form a living nightmare . 
 ? 1999 eugene novikov&#137 ; 
when i initially set out to review this film , my tag line was going to be " you too can believe whales can fly " . 
then it was going to be " you too can believe pastel triangles can fly " . 
then , it was going to be " you too can believe wood sprites can fly " . 
finally , i just gave up trying to come up with a tag line and decided to say . . . 
there's a lot of flying going on in this film ! 
as our first host steve martin tells us , the original concept behind fantasia was to bring it out every year with some old segments retained and some new segments added in . 
well apparently that plan fell by the wayside for a while , because approximately sixty years have passed since the original classic was released . 
part of this might have something to do with the cold reception the film got when it was first released in 1940 ( grossing somewhere close to $110 , 000 in its original month of release ) . 
subsequent re-releases of the film have elevated the popularity of the film to the classic status it has finally achieved ( and rightfully deserved ) . 
to celebrate the release of an updated version of fantasia , disney and imax teamed up to present the animated film in a fashion no one had seen before : six stories high . 
in an exclusive four month engagement ( from january 1st to april 30th , 2000 ) , fantasia 2000 can be seen at many imax theaters across the us . 
after the engagement is over , the film will be shown at regular theaters . 
is the format effective for the film ? 
with a few exceptions , yes . 
the first segment we are presented with is set to beethoven's fifth symphony . 
it's hard to describe exactly what this segment is about , but it involves a bunch of brightly colored butterfly looking triangles flitting about happily . 
everything seems to be going great for these little things until the ground erupts with swarms of evil , black bat-like triangles that attack and engulf their lighter counterparts . 
eventually , shafts of light from above help drive away the evil bat-like things and peace returns to the butterfly things . 
though this segment isn't very story driven , some of the images are very visually strong , especially the scene in which the dark cloud of bat things ( who are all outlined in blood red colors ) begin to overtake the skies . 
the next segment is set to ottorino respighi's " the pines of rome " . 
in this segment , some humpback whales swim happily through the ocean and eventually emerge from the water and fly around the massive icebergs that pepper the oceanscape . 
a whale calf gets into a scuffle with some nearby birds during the flight and ends up getting trapped in a giant iceberg he smashes into while trying to avoid the birds attack . 
he is finally saved ( by another liberating shaft of light ) and he and his brethren take to the skies and fly into the upper atmosphere where they frolic in the " oceans " of clouds . 
again , visuals are the key with this segment , especially where the whales are involved . 
reportedly the whales , as viewed on an imax screen in certain sequences , are shown as actual size . 
the cgi whales look incredibly life-like , except for some googly cartoon eyes drawn onto the images . 
one especially striking image involves the giant shadow of one of the whales being cast through the wall of an iceberg as the whale calf tries to find a way out to its parent . 
absolutely beautiful stuff . 
the third segment ( and the least of the eight segments ) is set to george gershwin's " rhapsody in blue " . 
this segment is designed as a tribute to acclaimed caricaturist al hirschfeld , and intertwines four different stories about sad souls living in depression era new york . 
there's a construction worker who dreams of being a jazz drummer , an out-of-work sad sack that dreams of having a job , a young girl that dreams of spending time with her parents instead of being hustled off by a schoolmarm , and a nebbish who dreams of being free from his overbearing wife . 
i won't go into how everything works out , but in fine disney tradition there is a happy ending . 
unfortunately , the story drags quite a bit and the seems out of place within the hyper reality of the rest of the segments . 
segment four is set to dmitri shostakovich's " piano concerto no . 2 " and is an animated version of hans christian andersen's " the steadfast tin soldier " . 
a one legged toy tin soldier falls in love with a wind-up clock ballerina ( whom he assumes is also one legged because he can't see her other leg extended out behind her ) , much to the dismay of an evil jack-in-the-box jester . 
the jester knocks the soldier out of a window and continues pursuing the ballerina . 
little does the jester know , the soldier has been deposited in the sewer and has journeyed through the pipelines only to be swallowed by a fish that has been captured and sold to the owner of the set of tin soldiers that the one legged one comes from . 
the soldier eventually saves the day and gets the girl . 
although the ending has been altered from the andersen story , " the steadfast tin soldier " is decently told with in the framework of a seven minute short . 
some children may find the jester to be a little frightening , but otherwise the segment is well made . 
segment five is the funniest of the bunch . 
set to camille saint-saens " the carnival of the animals " , this segment features a flamingo torturing his fellow flamingos with a yo-yo while they are trying to perform a choreographed dance number . 
while it is the shortest clip of the group and a throwback to the alligators and hippos dancing in the first fantasia , it is still well accomplished and a welcome bit of comedy . 
segment six is the only segment to be repeated from the original 1940 fantasia , and it's the one that people remember most , " the sorcerer's apprentice " . 
the story is the most recognizable , so the draw here is seeing it on the enormous imax screen in remastered stereo . 
unfortunately , the segment wasn't made to be presented on large format film ( considering it was shot full frame ) and exhibits large amounts of grain . 
there were at least two occasions where images were very hard to make out due to the excessive grain . 
similar problems crop up on modern day releases when projected on screens too large for the image to be shown accurately ( but no one seems to notice for some strange reason ) , an anomaly common to many 18-plus screen theaters . 
segment seven is set to sir edward elgar's " pomp and circumstance march no . 1 " and is the only other fantasia segment to feature a stock disney character . 
donald duck " stars " as an assistant to noah , whose task is loading all of the animals onto the ark . 
during the loading , donald and his wife lose sight of each other and both believe that the other one didn't make it on the boat . 
they are constantly missing each other due to comic misadventures mainly involving donald being crushed by animals in various manners . 
despite the slapstick style of comedy in this piece , it displays more emotion in its final scene than many of the tear-jerkers foisted on audiences these days . 
powerful stuff . 
segment eight brings a whole new meaning to the clich ? " saving the best for last " . 
set to igor stravinsky's " the firebird " , an elk awakens a forest sprite that proceeds to change the wintery landscape into a beautiful springtime landscape . 
trees bloom and flowers blossom and everything seems to be going well until the sprite becomes inquisitive about a large mountain housing a strange formation . 
when the sprite examines the formation , it awakens and becomes the titular firebird . 
in a stunning spectacle , the firebird rears back and unleashes and fire storm that destroys everything in its path , including everything that the sprite has worked to create . 
some amazing animation is present here , and well worth the ten dollars a ticket alone ( although brush strokes are evident in one scene due to the enlargement of the film ) . 
the host segments are largely ( no pun intended ) throwaways , although steve martin's clip is pretty funny . 
be sure to stay through the credits for a little more humor from martin . 
penn and teller are usually funny , but here their gags seem routine and therefore uninteresting . 
the best segment comes from , of all people , bette midler , who gets to tell us about some of the abandoned segments that never made it off of the drawing board . 
pieces like flight of the bumblebee , a take on the four horsemen set to wagner's " ride of the valkyries " , and a strange segment prepared in the '40s by salvador dali that never was shown are all previewed here and teased that they may appear in future installments . 
for fans of visual stimulation or classical music , fantasia 2000 is a perfect way to spend the afternoon . 
the film is also decent family entertainment and contains little to no objectionable material . 
as i mentioned earlier in the review , if ten dollars seems like too much for you to spend on this film , fear not because after its run in imax theaters it is going to be brought out in regular theaters . 
i must stress that the best way to see this film is on an imax screen though . 
then you too can believe that whales/triangle things/sprites can fly . 
[g] 
it's tough to really say something nice about a type of person who's so ethnocentric that any humanity they once had is now gone , but by god , " american history x " does it , and for that , i commend it . 
it not only takes balls but intelligence to make a human being out of a neo-nazi skinhead , a kind of person who dedicates their lives to hating anyone who's not what they are , and this film wisely and miracurously pulls it off . 
the subject of this film is one of them , but he is worse than one of the blind followers that make up most skinhead members since he is the leader of the pack . 
he's the one who instigates them to take a firm grip onto their rage , and then in another brilliant stroke , justifies it with political propoganda that makes eerie sense when he speaks . 
he's so utterly convincing as a public speaker and so firm in his convictions that it comes as a shock when he actually goes through the rehabilitation process . 
his name is derek vinyard , and he's played by edward norton with so much fire and intensity that when he speaks he's almost as convincing and arresting a public speaker as , say , malcom x . when we first see him , he's clean shaven , with a jet black swastica emrboidered on his left breast , a devlish goatee , and he's attacking the black carjackers outside of his house dressed in nothing but his white boxers and carrying a handgun in his hand that never seems to run out of bullets , at least when he doesn't need them . 
he so believes in his convictions that he's willing to put his beliefs to the test , even if he knows it will mean a stop in prison , if only for a couple years . 
 " american history x " is about derek , how he became a neo-nazi skinhead , how he rose to power , how he was rehabilitated in prison after murdering two black men in a fit of rage that was less to do with the stealing of his car and more to do with proving himself , and how he tried to save others , namely his younger brother , from making the same mistake . 
we see him at all of these stages - as a smart teenager , a vicious hate monger , a man having an epiphany , and the man who tries to correct what he's done before - and in all of these , we get a portrait of a man from all sides . 
or at least , that's the intention . 
the film's framing device is his brother , danny ( edward furlong , perpetually looking about 13 ) , also now a skinhead , and how his principal , bob sweeney ( avery brooks , who i just found out was or is the captain on star trek's deep space 9 ) , is trying to " correct " him . 
when the film opens , danny has just written a book report on " mein kampf , " landing him in trouble with sweeney , which causes him to make him write a paper on derek's life and how it has gotten him nowhere . 
coincidentally , this day is the day derek is released from prison , and when we see him , he's cleaned-up , not as buff , and has a full head of hair . 
he's just as intelligent , but still very rough along the edges , but he's wisened up . 
he's no longer controlled by his anger at blacks and jews , and tries to persuade danny , who's becoming what derek was before , to give up his lifestyle . 
but danny won't . 
he goes to a large skinhead beer bash , meets with the skinhead leader ( stacy keach ) , and then discovers that derek is as opposed to neo-nazi-dom as he was for it a couple of years ago . 
the film circles around this , then spins off into non-linear flashbacks , all done in black and white . 
we mostly see derek at his prime as a skinhead , living in venice beach , organizing vicious and quasi-sadistic raids on local stores that no longer hire the white , middle-class teenagers since they can easily get cheaper illegal immigrants to do the same work , and mouthing off his theories on affirmative action and how illegal immigrants and blacks have destroyed the fundamentals this country was built on . 
to them , the white man is the one who has gotten the fuzzy end of the lolipop , and he not only speaks elloquently , forcefully , and intelligently , but he backs everything up with political reasons , justifying their rage at least to them . 
and frighteningly enough , much of what he says sounds true . 
 " american history x " is a collection of really great scenes and moments , rather than a cohesive , great film that flows effortlessly from one moment to the next . 
in it , there are some of the best scenes i've seen all year . 
one scene features a dinner between derek's family , and his mother's newest boyfriend ( played with reserve by eliott gould ) , a jewish liberal who quietly disagrees with derek's rightist views , launching the scene into a fit of rage and anger that builds unparalled emotions in the audience ( gould's reaction to derek's final summation is unnerrving ) . 
another scene uses humor and traditional macho sex talk to build a friendship and a nice connection between derek and a black co-worker ( guy torry ) while folding laundry in prison . 
and another soon-to-be-classic is actually divided in two : the murder of the two black men that winds derek in jail , which contains a final murder so nasty that it may be the most revoltingly shocking all year . 
there's much more to appreciate , like the acting , which is uniformly good , with stand-outs coming from avery brooks , beverly d'angelo ( as the long-suffering mother ) , and gould ( who has one horrible line , but other than that , comes off with the best performance he's given in what seems like a really long time ) . 
norton walks off with the film , though , coming off with such intensity that he reduces anyone not doing an adequate job to rubble . 
in only the fifth movie of his career , norton has invented himself as one of the most reliable and intense actors of his generation , and maybe the best . 
there's nothing like it when norton really gets rolling in this movie , spewing out lines with such authority that he commands all attention from the audience , coming off with power similar to that of a young maron brando . 
that he allows the little emotions to seep through is amazing . 
sadly enough , this isn't going to be the great portrait of racism that it perhaps hopes to be . 
it's too unambitious and even a little contrived to really take off as either a powerful statement or an emotional masterpiece . 
the ending , especially , is pencilled in from other movies , tossed in just so the emotional keyboard can be trounced upon . 
some of the skinheads are reduced to mere cliches ( kevin smith regular ethan suplee fairs rather annoyingly as the " fat skinhead , " whose lines consist without fail of expressing his desire to eat more ) , and even the dramatic arc isn't as well travelled . 
furlong's danny never seems to really be learning a lesson , since the flashbacks refuse to show his point of view , and when he decides to make a change by the end ( which was inevitable ) , it doesn't seem like it has actually arrived there . 
even derek's descent into skinhead-dom doesn't seem justified . 
though his fireman father ( william russ , the dad from " boy meets world , " and don't ask me how i know that ) is killed by a black junkie , and even before he spoke against affirmative action intelligently , there never seems to be any real back story why derek became so intense about his beliefs . 
as such , one can see why the director , tony kaye , wanted to have his name removed . 
sorta . 
 " american history x " is a very good movie , and i was very moved by it , but it could be a lot better , and the problem seems to be that the cut as it is is not up to what he claims to be his potential . 
somewhere , he claims , there lies a tony kaye cut , and that was to be the true cut until it was viewed by norton , who then ordered another cut , and that is thus . 
although he aimed for the directing credit to go to " alan smithee , " the resident name for any film that is to be disowned by its director , it wasn't allowed to him , under the grounds that once you disown a film , you can not badmouth it ( but really , that's the macguffin - no one really wanted a film this good to be given the alan smithee sign of disapproval ) . 
kaye's right in that it's not up to par , even if he's not referring to normal par but rather his own personal par . 
this will not be a " do the right thing " for the late 90s . 
yet it still gets its point across intelligently , and backs it up with its story ( its message , that one cannot be so enwrapped in one's own beliefs or pain and suffering will occur , is literally said over the narration , unfortunately ) . 
and even if it isn't perfect , at least when avery brooks turns to norton after he has been beaten and raped in prison , and asks him if anything he's done has made his life any better , it realy hits a nerve , not only in derek , but also in the audience . 
synopsis : as a response to accusations of sexual prejudice in the armed forces , a female naval intelligence officer is chosen to be a test case . 
if she can survive the demanding s . e . a . l . 
training , she will open the way for other women to be permitted to follow in her footsteps . 
throw in a lot of political machinations , sabotage , brutality , water and sand and you have an entertaining movie . 
review : the title of this movie turned me off at first . 
i mean 'gi jane ? ' ? ? ? ? ? 
the other titles which were considered were more promising - in pursuit of honor or a matter of honor would have been acceptable although navy cross or undisclosed are a little meaningless as far as i'm concerned . 
i went into this movie not liking the title and being one of those people who thinks that demi moore is absolutely ghastly as an actor . 
to my surprise i really enjoyed the movie . 
moore as lieutenant jordan o'neil is much more likeable than her washed out excuse for a gusty woman in a few good men . 
the storyline is simple . 
anne bancroft playing senator lillian dehaven is a ruthless , machiavellian politician with an agenda to push . 
using feminism to achieve political mileage , she forces the military powers that be to backdown and permit a test case to enter the highly intensive navy s . e . a . l . 
training . 
jordan is selected due to the fact that she has it all - looks , brains and strength . 
the training is gruelling and the indignity almost painful to watch . 
nonetheless , it's one of those movies that makes me want to cheer out and encourage the hapless hero/heroine along in his/her endeavours . 
sure , there are the stereotypical elements - inhuman treatment , sexual innuendo , resentful peers , pained boyfriend and sexist commanding officer . 
stepping away from the stereotypes though , viggo mortensen as master chief john urgayle tries to get away from being nothing more than a brutal screamer . 
his character exercises a little more intellectual rigour than you would normally expect from such a character . 
jordan's boyfriend royce is also in the military . 
although they both started at the same time , due to the fact that he has seen active service , he has advanced through the ranks much more quickly than she has . 
royce ( what is his surname ? 
do we care ? ) 
almost resents jordan's attempts to advance herself , although he quickly settles down to being doe-eyed and supportive . 
his character seems to have been thrown in so that we know that you don't have to be a lesbian to want to be in the military . 
in parts , this is a very silly movie , with gratuitous lines and scenes thrown in for effect which are so blatantly obvious or contrived that it's hard not to cringe . 
i still liked it though . 
weaknesses in the script aside , this is a film which captures a heroic and reckless mood . 
as we watch jordan's battle , it's increasingly clear that it is a personal battle . 
this is an individual's fight for self-advancement . 
we don't have to have our teeth set on edge by didactic preachings , we don't have to feel uncomfortable because we're having ideology thrust down our throats . 
it's enough that we can sit back and hope that this one person gets what she wants and we can admire her tenacity and determination without coming out and saying whether we believe women should go into combat or not . 
the idea at the center of the devil's advocate , which is , thus far , one of the three or four best films of 1997 , is that no matter what decision is made , evil will triumph -- god is a trickster , satan is a humanist -- " the last humanist " . 
he appears in many guises , and seduces many men and women -- in his own words , " vanity -- by far my favorite sin " . 
al pacino plays this role with relish , and gets to chew some delectable lines ( " lemme givya a piece o' inside wisdom on god . . . " , " i have a million names . . . " ) , as john milton -- the devil . 
the main idea -- that he can appear as anyone , in any form ( in this case , a buisness man ) , harkens mainly back to terry gilliam's the time bandits . 
but the film , is something else , something original . 
part of what makes it so very good , is that it never takes itself too seriously -- it dabbles with morality , vanity , death , and child abuse , but doesn't try to become any profound study of power . 
this is a marvelous confection -- cocky , funny , thought provoking . 
it is also entertaining . 
there is no way you could possibly predict the ending -- it pulls back upon itself , drawing purely out of the mind's eye . 
the final shot is more creative , more daring , more challenging , then anything in cinema since the white sock in the coen's fargo . 
the central themes are fascinating ( sometimes reminiscent of james' the turn of the screw , and oates' accursed inhabitants of the house of bly ) , and the product that is built around it really wows . 
its nice to know that things like this are still being made . 
scream 2 , like its predecessor , is a genre-crossing film . 
it is about 50% horror film and 50% murder mystery . 
the mix worked very well last time and it continues to entertain this time . 
scream was also known for its self-referential tone . 
many inside jokes were made in reference to horror movies and wes craven . 
again , scream 2 follows suit with characters saying such things as " sequels suck " and " the entire horror genre was destroyed by sequels . " 
scream 2's story is very similar to it's predecessor's . 
sidney ( neve campbell ) , having survived the killing spree in scream , is now in college . 
gale weathers ( courteney cox ) has written a book about the murders and that book is now being released as a feature film , called stab ( which for all practical purposes is the real-world movie scream ) . 
at the premiere of stab , two students from sidney's college are stabbed to death , and a new story begins . 
the press descends on sidney and her college to get the scoop on this sequel killer . 
they want to know all about the links between stab , sidney , and the recent murders . 
the most complex self-reference i saw ( this should be an olympic event ) was the scene where gale weathers was asking questions at a press conference . 
the rest of the press was watching and videotaping weathers . 
the other survivors from scream were watching and videotaping the press . 
the audience was watching the whole , filmed scene . 
 ( whew . ) 
the movie is packed with layers and self-references that make it a pleasure to watch . 
even better would be to watch a double feature of scream and scream 2 . that's not to say that these references necessarily make scream 2 a deep , or even a good movie . 
the just add to the fun of watching it . 
i recommend it for other reasons as well . 
what i liked best about the horror aspect of the movie is that the monster is not supernatural . 
no werewolf or ghost or psycho with superhuman strength is responsible . 
it is a person in a mask and a robe , his only advantage the fear he strikes into his victims . 
no extraordinary leap of faith is needed to believe in the killer . 
the down side is that if you are frightened by horror movies , you have less grounds to say " it's just a movie . " 
the whodunit aspect of the movie is not that great by itself - gale weathers and deputy dewey ( david arquette , also from the original ) track down a killer . 
they are likeable , but not outstanding . 
but in combination with the horror aspect , the whodunit is a perfect counterpoint . 
it was exactly a year ago today that i wrote the review for scream . 
the internet movie database says that scream 3 is in the works , so i wonder if i'll be doing the same thing on january 1 , 1999 . 
if craven and screenwriter kevin williamson are able to keep the quality high , i'll be happy to mark my calendar . 
when i first saw the previews for ron howard's latest film , my expectations were discouragingly low . 
a show about nothing ? 
sounds like " seinfeld . " 
a guy whose entire life is broadcast 24 hours a day ? 
sounds like " the truman show . " 
what is it with hollywood that no sooner than one production company puts out an animated feature about ants , another puts one out about bugs ? 
which is why i was pleasantly surprised by " edtv , " which turns out to be a fresh , insightful , and often times hilarious film about the follies of instant celebrity . 
the writing , by howard's longtime collaborators lowell ganz and babaloo mandel , is right on the money and howard himself should be credited for giving the subject matter a fresh focus . 
in the hands of a less-experienced director , " edtv " could easily have had all the flavor of yesterday's meatloaf . 
with their 'true tv' cable ratings being threatened by 'the gardening channel' ( apparently people would rather watch soil ) , the northwest broadcasting company is looking for a novel concept to attract viewers . 
program director cynthia topping ( ellen degeneres ) comes up with the idea of putting a nobody on the air and broadcasting his every waking and sleeping moment . 
the hook is to find a regular guy , someone normal that people can relate to . 
while scouting possible candidates , cynthia's camera crew discover ed pekurny and his pig brother ray ( woody harrelson ) in a bar , where ray believes he has what it takes for his fifteen plus minutes of fame . 
but on watching the videotape , the show's producers are more taken with ed than with ray . 
he's cute , he says all the wrong things , and he's 100% usda hick . 
cynthia's boss , played by rob reiner , gives the show a week to deliver the goods and it's tough going in the early stages . 
the most exciting thing that happens is ed brushes his teeth . 
 " action shot ! " 
wags one of the production assistants when a couple of pop tarts jump out of the toaster . 
you get the idea . 
but soon enough , things--nielsen-boosting kinds of things--start to happen to this unassuming san francisco video store clerk and the 'true tv' cameras are right there to document it . 
ed's privacy is no longer his own , his newfound fame starts having a negative impact on his family life , and what little dignity he has left is trampled on by the media . 
who should ed go out with ? 
you can be sure the pollsters have a list . 
not only is the film exceedingly well cast , but its performers are consistently excellent . 
matthew mcconaughey provides the face , the body language , and the lovable texan accent to fill the shoes of america's latest phenomenon . 
he and harrelson look like they really could be brothers . 
sally kirkland is noteworthy in a difficult role as ed's mother , and martin landau is one of the film's highlights as al , ed's ailing stepfather . 
jenna elfman ( from tv's " dharma and greg " ) proves herself surprisingly worthy in the company of kirkland and landau , although those alpine eyebrows of hers get a little distracting . 
even degeneres and reiner are better than you'd expect . 
in 1979 , writer/director/comedian albert brooks made a zany little film called " real life " in which a small-time opportunist makes a real-time documentary about a typical american family . 
the scenes of ed's family sitting around the dinner table feasting on kentucky fried chicken and waxing idiotic play like a big-budget variant on that film , paralleling its wickedly inventive humor . 
as with most films by albert brooks , " real life " was funny , but absurd . 
the funniest--and scariest--thing about " edtv " is that it is absolutely believable . 
ingredients : james bond , scuba scene , car controlled by cellular telephone 
synopsis : warped media tycoon elliot carver ( jonathan pryce ) plots to start a war between britain and china in order to boost ratings by using a 'stealth ship' to fire a captured british missile at the city of beijing . 
super-agent james bond ( pierce brosnan ) uses trick gadgets , pluck , and charm in order to foil carver's scheme . 
this time bond teams up with top female agent wai lin from china ( michelle yeoh ) . 
the film contains fights , chases , gadgets , and comedic moments . 
opinion : it does not have a casino scene or a ski scene , but tomorrow never dies is nevertheless a solid , enjoyable bond movie . 
it neither stands out nor disappoints . 
in old bond movies bond sometimes teamed up with american cia agent felix leiter . 
tomorrow never dies introduces a new character in the form of chinese agent wai lin . 
like leiter's character , wai lin would be a sure bet for a cameo in a later bond movie . 
stars : michelle yeoh was born a leo in the western zodiac in the year of the tiger on the asian astrology calendar . 
i dont believe in horoscopes . 
but at an airport i once browsed an astrology book with a section on leo tigers ( lts ) . 
 " leo tigers prefer enough solitude to grow at their own pace . 
lts are unbelievably courageous when facing adversity . 
the lt is also classy , and has an excellent sense of refinement , but she sees herself as an adventurer , and prefers freedom of movement rather than flashy status symbols . 
this person loves family and friends with a fierce loyalty . 
she delights in siblings , nephews , nieces and extended family - - but she must have her personal freedom to come and go as she pleases . 
sometimes annoyance at injustice drives her to take up one or two causes . 
in love life , the lt has an unfortunate mental block against committing to any partner who is less powerful than she . " 
in real life , michelle yeoh is asia's top female star . 
like jackie chan , she does her own stunts . 
she was born in malaysia - - a country of many languages - - and her primary language ( the language she speaks in her sleep ) is english . 
she was taught malay in school , and learned cantonese from bilingual parents . 
as an athlete michelle represented malaysia internationally . 
she enjoyed squash , diving , swimming , and rugby . 
she studied ballet at the royal academy of dance in london , but switched to drama after a spinal injury . 
in 1983 she won the miss malaysia pageant - - without really intending to , since a family member had entered her in the contest without her knowledge . 
notoriety from the contest led eventually to a movie career as an action heroine . 
michelle has survived a divorce with asian retail tycoon dickson poon ; a nearly fatal stunt accident falling from a freeway overpass which put her in the hospital for three months , and ; a retirement from the movies . 
her comeback from retirement , supercop ( 1992 ) became the top grossing film in asia that year . 
it is not clear what michelles martial arts style is , but it may be a theatrical version of wing chun . 
of her character wai lin in tomorrow never dies , michelle says , " wai lin is the first bond girl who is on a par with bond , someone who can match up with him mentally and physically . " 
my own opinion is that casting michelle yeoh as agent wai lin was an excellent choice . 
it is always refreshing to see a superstar actor who gets paid more than enough to forget about working for a living to want to take a chance and play a less-than-savoury character as mel gibson does in payback . 
of course , if i was being paid $25 million for one month's work , i'd probably be willing to take risks as well , but that's neither here nor there . 
payback is based on a novel by richard stark ( apparently actually donald e . westlake , author of the grifters , itself a fine crime film ) which was also filmed in the 1960s as point blank starring one of the toughest of tough guys , lee marvin . 
the film opens with gibson having recovered from being shot several times in the back , by whom we don't know yet . 
all we know is that gibson , as porter , isn't a happy chappy and is hellbent on getting the money stolen from him back , and getting even in the process , no matter what the consequences . 
it turns out that the man he's after is val ( gregg henry ) , his sometime partner with whom he stole a briefcase full of cash from a gang of chinese mobsters . 
obviously not having much of a crisis of the soul , val figures porter is dead and goes about using his share of the money to pay off a debt to his employers . 
porter , however , is the sort of man who holds a grudge and once on his feet , goes about exacting revenge on the double-crossing val . 
gibson gives a terrific performance in the sort of role which he was born to play , that of a slightly unhinged guy who doesn't mind beating up or shooting people to get what he wants . 
you probably wouldn't see other actors in his salary range take such an offbeat , out-of-character role such as porter ( jim carrey won't be doing anything like this in a hurry after what happened the last time he tried - the cable guy , anyone ? ) . 
harrison ford's idea of playing an unsympathetic character is presumed innocent ; the last time schwarzenegger played a villain was batman and robin , which we won't mention further ; and has stallone ever really played a villain at all ? 
this is not to say that porter is a villain , per se . 
while he isn't the sort of character you wouldn't want to get on the wrong side of , he's nothing compared to some of the ones we are forced to watch in countless bad thrillers and action films where they kill innocent people in the blink of an eye or execute their right-hand men just to prove how mean they are . 
porter is only trying to get back what is not-so-rightfully his , which in a way is almost understandable . 
payback is an enjoyable dramatic black comedy-thriller which won't be remembered as being among gibson's most important work , but is still one of the finer films he's done . 
the only real problem with it is that , while everything seems to work out in the end , i was left feeling something was lacking ; was that all ? 
the ending looks as if it was tacked on at the last minute , and the final voice-over doesn't ring true , even though it was used to good effect elsewhere in the film-noir style the rest of the film embodies . 
the film just ends far too suddenly , after a huge build-up in the penultimate scenes . 
a fine film , even though it needs just a little something more to be the kind of a film that can be recommended without hesitation . 
just be ready for a possible letdown of an ending . 
if you thought baz luhrmann's radical take on _william_shakespeare's_romeo_+_juliet_ was wild , wait until what you see what tony award-winning stage director julie taymor ( _the_lion_king : _the_broadway_musical_ ) does to the bard's _titus_andronicus_ for her audacious--and very bloody--film debut . 
while luhrmann transplanted the star-crossed lovers to 1990s florida , taymor keeps this grisly tale of revenge in rome--but places it in a surreal temporal limbo . 
the colosseum suggests the proper time of imperial rome , but high rises and heavy duty kitchen ovens suggest the 1990s , while the vintage automobiles and some costumes are more '40s and '50s , and other garments are more gladiator-like . 
as tamora , queen of goths ( jessica lange ) exacts revenge on roman general titus ( anthony hopkins ) for killing her eldest son , and he does the same to her for the wrongs she commits , taymor obviously wanted to express the timeless relevance of the story's underlying themes . 
however , the time convergence approach only works at times , for often it's just distracting , as in one scene where tamora's suviving sons ( matthew rhys and jonathan rhys meyers ) blow off steam playing video arcade games . 
taymor didn't have to resort to such avant garde time tricks , for the story would have resonated just as strongly had she jettisoned them . 
she is a strong storyteller and a master visual stylist , the latter compliment encompassing all areas , makeup and costume choices as well as those in the editing and photography departments . 
she also has a sure way with actors ; hopkins' titus is at once tragic and horrifying , and lange is sultry as the viperous tamora . 
the clear standout of the cast , however , is harry lennix as aaron , a moor who is tamora's secret lover and a schemer in his own right . 
lennix brings great depth to a role that could have easily been played as a stock villain . 
a great villain he indeed is , but to leave it at that isn't giving full justice to his powerful and multi-dimensional work . 
_titus_ isn't a complete success , but it is never less than fascinating , and it announces the arrival of a fearlessly imaginative new cinematic voice . 
meteor threat set to blow away all volcanoes & twisters ! 
summer is here again ! 
this season could probably be the most ambitious = season this decade with hollywood churning out films like deep impact , = godzilla , the x-files , armageddon , the truman show , all of which has but = one main aim , to rock the box office . 
leading the pack this summer is = deep impact , one of the first few film releases from the = spielberg-katzenberg-geffen's dreamworks production company . 
following = the rather dismal showing of their previous two releases ; mousehunt and = amistad , deep impact shines with elements which could just make it one = of the biggest movies of the year . 
deep impact begins with the discovery of an earth bound comet during a = school astronomy outing by leo beiderman ( elijah wood ) which = subsequently stirred up the political community of the world . 
keeping = the information under wraps to prevent widespread panic , president beck = ( morgan freeman ) took it upon himself and his subordinates to execute a = highly secretive space project to destroy the comet before it hits = earth . 
while pursuing a sex-scandal story amongst the presidential = ranks , ambitious up and coming reporter , jenny lerner ( tea leoni ) = unfolds the wool that president beck has pulled over the citizens of the = world . 
as if the knowledge of the imminent annihilation of mankind is = not enough , jenny has to come to terms with her father ( maximillian = schell ) leaving the mother for a younger woman . =20 
president beck announces the discovery and preparations to destroy the = comet exactly one-year later , with so much confidence that it left no = trace of panic within the american community . 
achieving fame from = announcement of the comet wolf-beiderman en-route to earth ( the name of = its discoverers ) , leo beiderman continues life in his small town as a = young celebrity . 
a team of astronauts , led by the ageing veteran = astronaut spurgeon tanner ( robert duvall ) , was secretly trained to carry = out the mission to land on the comet and create and explosion with a = nuclear device , with the hope of blowing it out of its current path = towards earth . 
despite him being the most experienced in the team , the = younger generation of astronauts in the team doubts tanner's ability due = to his age . 
but these are just problems of individuals . 
life on earth = goes on as any other day , confident that the comet will be destroyed . 
when the attempt to avert wolf-beiderman's path failed and caused the = comet to split into two : comet wolf and comet beiderman , the president = unfolds his contingency plan to evacuate part of the population , leaving = the rest to die . 
citizens are randomly chosen to live underground for 2 = years prior to impact , when the dust due to the impact around earth have = settled , by then all life on the surface would have died . 
jenny and leo = were picked but many of their loved ones were not , only a handful of = earth's population will be saved from destruction . 
=20 
deep impact's moving moments occur in the least special-effect laced = scenes . 
while the effects are fantastic , they only form a small part of = the film , which indulges itself in the development of its main = characters ; leo , lerner and tanner . 
leo's struggle when he learns that = his girlfriend is not part of the population to be saved , lerner's = dwindling relationship with her father and her pain for the mother's = loneliness , tanner's strive to gain the respect he deserves from his = crew and his ultimate sacrifice , all form the backbone of deep impact's = moving moments . 
deep impact smells suspiciously like the previous year = release contact despite vivid differences . 
i think its probably because = they both delve in a story of global proportions and indulges in the = premise of hope , faith and life itself . 
both do not depend heavily on = eye-candy in the form of cgi effects . 
director mimi leder ( who won = numerous awards directing television series , and made her debut with = peacekeeper last year ) is definitely a director to watch . =20 
despite this being the first of the two meteor movies this summer ( the = other being armageddon ) , i think there will be stark differences in the = approach to the subject matter . 
while the premise of both may be the = same , execution and focus of the films will in fact show that deep = impact has more focus on human elements than armageddon , which is done = by the team which brought us bad boys , crimson tide and the rock . 
=20 
deep impact should be able to satisfy a variety of audiences ; from the = most action-craving to those who just want to immerse into its = manipulative but nonetheless dramatic premise . 
there is a striking scene early in " city of angels , " where all the angels who live unseen in our midst , gather at the beach to watch the sun rise . 
the camera moves above them , showing the endless rows of ethereal men and women , all garbed in black . 
then the camera moves in on the face of seth , an angel played by nicolas cage , and as the sun rises , he smiles and his entire face lights up . 
you see , the angels can hear music in sunrises and sunsets , but they cannot feel a human touch . 
it is an important scene for several reasons . 
first of all , it is one of many instances in the film that make angels seem thoroughly plausible . 
the film presents these fantastic beings as normal-looking people who drift amongst the inhabitants of earth , watching what goes on with little interference . 
there are none of the standard , hokey angel references used in recent films like " angels in the outfield " ( 1994 ) or " michael " ( 1996 ) . 
the angels here are stark and believable . 
this early scene on the beach is also an important scene of juxtaposition , for its shows how god's angels can enjoy aspects of the earth that human cannot , and yet they are denied so many simple human pleasures , like feeling the sand on their feet or the waves lapping at their legs , or the smell of the salt in the air . 
there is an inherent tragedy in being an angel , although there is much beauty in it as well . 
they eternally walk the earth , listening to our thoughts , touching us in our pain , and leading the dying to heaven . 
like human existence , being an angel is often confused and unsure . 
 " city of angels " is essentially a love story , between seth and a human , a beautiful but sad heart surgeon named maggie ( meg ryan ) . 
he first sees her when he is in her operating room , waiting to lead the soul of her dying patient to heaven . 
maggie is distraught , doing everything in her power to stop the man from dying on her table , and seth is moved by her efforts and , more importantly , her overwhelming sadness when the patient dies . 
angels have the limited power to soothe humans in time of misery and pain , and seth does what he can with his invisible touch , but it's not enough . 
he wants to be with her and share her pain , not just stand back at a distance . 
he learns that the only way to fulfill his desire for human love and touch is for him to " fall " and become human . 
he learns this from another fallen angel , played by dennis franz ( " n . y . p . d . 
blue " ) in a touching and humorous performance . 
sitting at a diner together , franz tells cage's character about how wonderful it is to be human - to be able to taste food , feel another person's skin , smell the air , and most importantly , have a loving wife and children . 
of course , there is pain to go along with all this , but for seth , it will be worth it . 
 " city of angels " is something of a reinterpretation of wim wender's haunting 1988 film " wings of desire . " 
wenders' film was more like a poem - it was the feeling , the emotion that truly mattered over what actually happened . 
the americanized version moves the location from divided berlin to broken los angeles , and the emphasis shifts onto the relationship between the immortal angel and the mortal human . 
and , unlike most foreign films that are re-made into hollywood fare , it doesn't suffer extensive damage . 
this may be because director brad silberling ( " casper " ) and screenwriter dana stevens ( " blink " ) wanted to make " city of angels " its own movie - inspired by " wings of desire , " but not an attempt to copy it . 
and yet , " city of angels " is not a typical hollywood movie . 
it is beautifully filmed in lush colors by cinematographer john seale ( " the english patient " ) , whose sweeping aerial shots and golden lighting make los angeles into an almost unrecognizable new world . 
seale creates many striking visuals : in addition to the beach scene , there is a wonderful sequence in a circular library where all the angels appear at banisters all around , looking down at seth as he watches maggie walk by . 
while the film travels along a charted plot , it takes time to develop its characters and situations ; it sheds light on the boundaries between what is earthly and what is heavenly , and shows just how thin those boundaries are . 
both cage and ryan give soulful , soft-spoken performances . 
ryan , who is usually so bouncy and energetic , truly embodies a sadness that can only be alleviated by a heavenly touch . 
cage projects all his desire and longing to be human in simple , heartfelt gazes , and speaks with the comforting , knowing voice that only an angel could have . 
what is most striking about " city of angels " is that stevens has added a new ending to the screenplay , which is both unexpected and challenging . 
it's not a formulaic hollywood ending , because it is both sad and uplifting at the same time . 
it doesn't give the audience what it thinks it wants at the end of a romance . 
instead , it offers something much better , something that speaks to the depths of what it means to be human and alive . 
____________________________________________ visit " charlie don't surf ! " 
an eclectic collection of film reviews by james kendrick http : //www . bigfoot . com/~jimkendrick 
|| e-mail : jimkendrick@bigfoot . com 
star wars : episode 1 - the phantom menace ( 1999 ) 
review by matt pusateri 
few movies evoke nostalgia , enthusiasm , and affection like george lucas' 1977 classic , star wars . 
the original blockbuster film and its two sequels not only evoked wonder and passion in a generation of filmgoers , but has deeply entrenched itself in american pop culture . 
arguably , more americans today can explain what " the force " or a " jedi " is than a budget deficit or a serb . 
so 22 years after the release of the original , and 16 years since the third film , the return of the jedi , how can any new star wars film withstand the weight of incomparable expectations and anticipation ? 
can a new storyline and a new cast of characters possibly compete with the legends of the first trilogy - luke , han solo , and darth vader -all cultural icons ? 
against this challenge , the fourth star wars film , episode one : the phantom menace hit the screens last week . 
and despite some early critical reviews in the major media , the film is neither a flop nor a disappointment . 
while the phantom menace is certainly not the finest film in the series , it is nonetheless engaging , exciting , and visually breathtaking . 
it is a worthy sequel - er , prequel - to the original star wars films . 
the phantom menace takes place decades before the setting of original films . 
as the film opens , obi-wan kenobi ( ewan mcgregor ) , the wise old master who introduced luke to the force in the original star wars , is only a young jedi apprentice , still learning from his fellow jedi and instructor , qui-gon jinn ( liam neeson ) . 
the republic government has sent the two jedi to settle a trade dispute that has developed into a blockade of the planet naboo by a shifty trade federation . 
the jedi quickly find themselves not in negotiations , but in the middle of a planetary invasion , rushing to protect naboo's young queen amidala ( natalie portman ) . 
later , after eventually rescuing amidala and helping her escape naboo , they are forced to stop at tatooine to repair their battle-damaged ship before bringing her to the galactic senate to make an appeal for justice . 
on tatooine , qui-gon discovers a young slave boy , anakin skywalker ( jake lloyd ) , who not only can help them get the parts they need , but displays uncanny intelligence , insight , and instincts . 
qui-gon senses the child is " unusually strong " with the force and begins to suspect that he may be " the one " prophesized to " bring balance to the force . " 
as anyone who has watched the original star wars trilogy knows , far from being a galactic savior , the innocent-looking 9-year-old will in time become the ruthless darth vader . 
complicating matters further is a mysterious hooded figure , darth sidious , is behind the trade blockade and invasion of naboo , and sends out a lethal apprentice , darth maul , to find and capture queen amidala . 
while amidala and the jedi fight to save her planet , they soon also have to deal with the deadly and relentless darth maul . 
if the plot sounds a bit complicated , it is . 
the phantom menace not only introduces an earlier generation of characters and an immediate crisis , but sets up the foundation for the events that will eventually lead to the fall of the republic , the demise of the jedi knights , anakin's turn to evil , and the rise of the dark empire of original trilogy . 
but the complexity is not overwhelming . 
the story moves quickly , with the only drawback being that many questions , predictably , remain unanswered at the end of the film , setting the stage for the next episode . 
one of the reasons the film's story seems hazy is not that it is too confusing , but too unfocused . 
it's unclear whose story phantom menace is . 
in the original trilogy , the movies were clearly luke's story , with the stories centering around his growth from farmboy to rebel hero to jedi knight . 
but it's unclear whether this new film is anakin's story or obi-wan's . 
if this trilogy is centered on anakin , it's a shaky foundation . 
lloyd , like many child actors , lacks the subtle acting skills of adult performers , and as a result , his character seems shallow and unimpressive . 
on screen , we see nothing that suggests a dark side lurking underneath his little-boy face , or for that matter , any presence that would make him seem so special that qui-gon is willing to believe he is " the one . " 
the rest of the cast does fine , though they often work with some iffy dialogue by lucas . 
neeson is perfect as an aging jedi knight . 
mcgregor is well-cast as obi-wan and conveys a balance of youthful energy and calm sensibility . 
portman fits the role of a young queen well , but her lines were often very formal , giving her little room to give her character much personality . 
the biggest problem with the phantom menace is not the plot or the characters , but the interaction between them . 
individually , the characters in this new film are no less developed than those in the original star wars , and the storyline is not more confusing than previous films in the series . 
but unlike the previous trilogy , lucas doesn't do as good of a job playing the characters off one another . 
in star wars , there were immediate contrasts and memorable exchanges between luke and han , han and obi-wan , and leia and luke . 
the ensemble played off each other and immediately showed their distinct attitudes and personalities . 
in the sequence in where luke , han , and chewbacca attempt to rescue leia from her cell on the death star , the audience learns a lot about all four characters in the ways they react to the immediate problems and each other . 
there is no comparable sequence in the phantom menace to flesh out the characters and their relationships with each other . 
individually , they are interesting characters with clear motivations and interests , but lucas develops little chemistry or tension between the them . 
this is perhaps the most glaring weakness of this film , and is probably the reason it has disappointed many reviewers . 
but despite the need for a richer dialogue and stronger character interaction , the film is still very engaging . 
many of the wonderful elements of lucas' previous films make the phantom menace both memorable and entertaining . 
first , of course , is the remarkably rich and imaginative universe lucas creates . 
the characters visit magical underwater cities , evade dinosaur-sized sea monsters , fight battle droids and menacing " destroyers " on venetian-looking planet of naboo , watch a spectacular event , part roman-chariot race , part nascar circuit , on the arid desert planet of tatooine , then head to corsucant , the gothic urban capital of the republic and home to the galactic senate and the jedi council . 
each location is elaborate and complex . 
lucas never settles for vague ideas about the look of his settings , he creates rich , spectacular landscapes , palaces , and skylines . 
most of the new special effects in his re-released special edition trilogy in 1997 were changes that allowed him to give the earlier movies the look and feel that just weren't possible when the films were made . 
more than ever , in this new film , lucas' universe is filled with a menagerie of creatures , robots with personalities , and a supporting cast of aliens who interact with the main characters . 
the best such character is watto , a greedy tatooine junk dealer who owns anakin and his mother as slaves . 
watto has a scratchy italian voice and a short , paunchy body with oddly mismatched wings that flutter like a hummingbird as he floats around the room . 
of all the computer-generated characters in the film , watto is the best done and most enjoyable . 
speaking of computer-generated characters , no review of the phantom menace is complete without mentioning the most controversial figure in the film : jar jar binks . 
with more than 80 minutes of screen time , jar jar is the realization of george lucas' dream to include a fully computer-generated character into the cast of the new trilogy . 
jar jar , a clumsy amphibian and member of the gungan race , literally stumbles his way into the path of the jedi knights early in the film and becomes qui jon's accidental sidekick . 
jar jar usually performs a comic-relief role in the film , lightening scenes with his mishaps and inability to stay out of trouble . 
the animation of jar jar is nearly seamless , and he interacts with the characters throughout the film as if he were really on the set with the actors . 
however , despite the technological magic that makes his character possible , jar jar isn't completely convincing . 
he still moves and sounds too much like a cartoon to blend into a scene . 
throughout the movie , jar jar never transcends a " roger rabbit " -like presence . 
you accept that he's there , but you never lose sight of the fact that he is an animated character . 
initially , i found jar jar annoying , but grew to enjoy the humor he added to the film . 
on my second viewing of the film , jar jar was a lot of fun and i didn't mind him at all . 
a second reason this film continues the fine tradition of star wars movies is that the film is replete with humor and small details that flesh out the world lucas creates . 
despite all the film's struggles between good and evil , and the sober musings about one's destiny and " the force , " like all star wars films , the phantom menace never takes itself too seriously . 
fortunately , lucas hasn't lost sight of the fact that his films are entertainment , not high art . 
from the bumbling jar jar , to a one-man , two-headed announcer team calling the action at the film's thrilling pod-race sequence , to a cameo appearance by e . t . 
in the film , the phantom menace is simply a lot of fun , with lots of half-hidden jokes and humor that can easily be missed . 
and finally , the phantom menace works because , as in all his films , there is no shortage of speed and action . 
from beginning to end , there are light-saber battles , hair-raising chases , and thrilling duels between good and evil . 
the pod-race sequence on tatooine is one of the most entertaining and exciting scenes in any star wars film , and the final showdown between obi-wan , qui-gon , and darth maul is arguably the best choreographed , most thrilling fight sequence lucas has filmed . 
the phantom menace won't win any major oscars . 
it probably won't beat titanic's box office record . 
and it's not even the best star wars film ( i'd put it third , after the original and the empire strikes back ) . 
but it's an exciting and entertaining film , far better than your typical summer blockbuster . 
the film can't live up to it's hype - no film , not even the original star wars , could have done that . 
but it's still worth seeing . . . 
probably more than once . 
the premise is simple , if not bizarre . 
a mad scientist ( trace beaulieu as dr . clayton forrester ) launches an average-joe ( michael j . nelson as mike nelson ) into space where he forces his subject to watch the most horrendous movies ever made . 
why ? 
it's torturous , it's maniacal , and it's just plain fun . 
based on the cult-favorite cable television series , mystery science theater 3000 : the movie isn't torturous , but as for being maniacal and just plain fun , it foots the bill quite nicely . 
mike nelson , on a dog-bone shaped spacecraft , spends his days as any young man would dream - indulging in sarcasm and horseplay , and seeing quite a few movies . 
the catch is , these movies aren't the movies he chooses , but retched examples of film-making chosen specifically by dr . forrester in an attempt to break mike's will to live . 
dr . forrester is convinced that one too many b- movies is all it will take to ruin a man , but with a couple of wise-cracking puppet buddies ( tom servo , voiced by kevin murphy , and crow t . robot , voiced by beaulieu ) , the torture becomes somewhat of a honorary party for all that is wrong in the world of cheezy cinema . 
the purpose behind mst3k is to exploit some of the worst films known ( even if by very few of us ) to man . 
we watch as the silhouettes of mike , tom , and crow sit in a darkened theater poking fun at the movie going on before them . 
in this case , it's the 1954 sci-fi film this island earth . 
we basically watch as our three leads watch , only we get the pleasure of eavesdropping on their hilarious commentary . 
the plots behind the movies ripped apart are really quite irrelevant , but for the sake of those who might want to know , i'll explain this one . 
this island earth is the tale of two scientists , a man and a woman , who wind up aboard a spaceship whose crew intends to destroy the earth . 
together the two fight to survive as well as save their home planet . 
to make mst3k work , the film-within-the-film naturally has to be as horrible as possible , and although the tv-series introduced us to several worse films than this island earth , it's a bad enough flick to bring about some hysterical cruelty . 
mst3k , which doesn't actually contain the complete this island earth , is a short 73 minutes , but this is a step very wisely taken . 
as funny as some of their observations are , it can only go so long . 
occasional breaks from this island earth also help the film tremendously . 
although it takes a second to get back into the right mode after this premise has been left for a moment , it's better than overkilling the whole concept post haste . 
mst3k lovers will likely hail the film greatly , but if you don't know what you're in for , it could be a jarring disappointment . 
although i thought the sharp wit of this film was worth three stars , it is a movie to be seen on home video , late at night when your brain is not functioning to full capacity anyway , and with a large , saracastic crowd - new year's at midnight for example , which is when i saw it . 
warning : although mst3k has more to its end credits than most ( the three leads use the credits to poke some more fun ) , they are actually more annoying than most . 
the name slandering and asinine one-liners were extremely unfunny , and after laughing for about 70 minutes straight , it put a heavy damper on the overall experience . 
most people will likely stay to see what the smart-alec's have to say , but for me , it almost ruined an otherwise good film . 
any movie about the underground music scene is a difficult beast to master . 
any meaning found in the underground is usually lost by the dumbing-down of the experience to make it " more accessible " to the general public . 
or the film is produced and directed by people that have about enough understanding of the subject matter that they ought to work as production assistants for vh1 . 
human traffic , a new film exploring the british underground party/rave scene and the people immersed in the world of clubbing , pubbing , drugs , sex , and the beautiful , beautiful music , is an example of how it really ought to be done . 
the film follows five brits in their young twenties during a wild weekend of parties , drugs , dancing , sex , pop culture discussions , relationships , and wanking off in front of a mirror while mum interrupts . 
the cast of character consists of jip ( john simm ) , our narrator , who has a bit of a problem with his willy , known as mr . floppy . 
koop ( shaun parkes ) , our black dj maestro , who has insecurity issues , afraid his girlfriend nina ( nicola reynolds ) is shagging other men . 
nina herself can't stand her mcjob and longs for the freedom of the weekends . 
lulu ( lorraine pilkington ) , jip's best mate , is tired of her cheating boyfriends . 
and moff ( danny dyer ) can't seem to escape the black hole of his awful life . 
the film follows these five individuals during one weekend as each of them discovers love , friendship , and self-fulfillment , all against the raging party background . 
human traffic is proof that cinema can still tell us deep stories while being visually alive , as director justin kerrigan's subtle use of the camera lets the audience become part of the action . 
the use of direct communication to the audience by the collection of characters works well , making the viewer the subconscious mind for the characters . 
dialogue is crisp and moves with an even pace , and the acting is confident . 
however , the two females leads tend to promote their relationships and dialogue with a bit of unneeded urgency that shows through when poignancy is needed . 
human traffic does not try to explain the rave scene . 
instead , it gives the audience the ability to listen to the people inside it , letting you choose your own convictions about this powerful musical movement that brings together strangers , friends , and lovers for one blissful night of music and peace . 
steve martin took an extended vacation from all facets of moviemaking a few years back ; he spent this time writing essays and short stories for " the new yorker , " several of which wound up in his hilarious hardback compilation , pure drivel ( 1998 ) . 
much of the book spares tinseltown from mockery , although he does riff on the racist comments made by marlon brando during a larry king interview , in a fine chapter called " in search of the wily filipino . " 
now , as writer and star of bowfinger , he offers the masses plenty of good reasons not to pursue a career in the cinema , perhaps finally venting the frustrations ( 'everything being made now is crap' ) that led to his brief retirement from hollywood . 
martin stars as bobby bowfinger , a roger corman-wannabe on the cusp of fifty and desperate for some success as a producer , quality of the projects be damned . 
his accountant ( adam alexi-malle ) proposes a movie called " chubby rain , " about aliens who travel to earth in raindrops slightly fatter than regular raindrops . 
bowfinger latches onto the idea immediately , and convinces his troupe of actor friends to appear in the film , based on the lie that america's top box office draw , kit ramsey ( murphy ) , has agreed to star . 
ramsey , of course , wants nothing to do with such low-grade material , so bowfinger , on the thinking that action stars need to run , not speak , decides to photograph the superstar surreptitiously . 
he sends his cast members ( who aren't in on it , either ; they are told ramsey hates the sight of cameras and fraternizing with his co-stars ) to ramsey's table at restaurants , asks them to follow him in parking lots , etc . , spouting script dialogue , all the while shooting the outcome from a great distance . 
the paranoid ramsey flees the scene nearly every time . 
ramsey is a member of mind head , a cultish self-help organization apparently dedicated to recruiting celebrities . 
 ( as if that's not familiar enough , mind head guru terry stricter ( terence stamp ) has been dressed and combed to resemble l . ron hubbard , founder of scientology . ) 
when he goes to mind head with tales of caucasian strangers appearing from nowhere to babble " white code " in his face , they fear the nervous breakdown of an important client and rush him off to a retreat , requiring bowfinger to find a stand-in . 
murphy will probably win more fans as jiff , ramsey's adorable , ignoramus double , than as kit , but it is his portrayal of the latter that took courage . 
always surrounded by an entourage , suffering from a racial inferiority complex , murphy plays right into the tabloid image of himself . 
furthermore , consider the enemies he'll make of popular scientologists . 
pacing stricter's neutral-coloured office as if on an amphetamine binge and stripped of his bigshot veneer , ramsey is asked to shout inane personal affirmations repeatedly . 
murphy's scenes with stamp are exactly what i imagine of a john travolta " clearing . " 
not that murphy is entirely responsible for this schtick ; bowfinger is steve martin's invention . 
his script is surprisingly clever as satire , given that the pseudo-religion is a sitting duck , as is the entire los angeles film industry . 
 ( the griffin mill-types take quite a beating , in the form of robert downey jr . as bigwig jerry renfro . ) 
martin's decision to tell the story from a bottom feeder's point of view is what keeps it fresh and innovative-never have we seen on screen a group of people struggle this hard to complete a motion picture . 
as expected , there are laughs only to be had insiders or buffs , such as martin's crew of mexican border-jumpers , who gain unexpected appreciation for the classics from reading " cahiers du cinema , " or martin's nonsensical explanation to dave , his loyal cinematographer ( jamie kennedy ) , that every movie , in the end , has a budget of two-thousand dollars ( ! ) . 
most of bowfinger is universally funny , however ; i defy any viewer to keep a straight face when christine baranski , one of our brightest comediennes , is on screen . 
bowfinger's main flaw is a plot twist that has an insubstantial aftermath . 
we're also asked to believe that a few simple close-ups of kit ramsey would redeem " chubby rain , " z-grade entertainment that would make ed wood blush . 
 ( this aspect of bowfinger has much in common with the ludicrous oscar sequence in oz's last directorial effort , the poorly conceived in & out . ) 
these are significant enough weaknesses that they distracted from my enjoyment of the piece . 
as i mentioned at the start of this review , bowfinger offers solid reasons not to do what heather graham's character daisy does : hop a bus to hollywood in search of stardom . 
that said , it offers one fantastic reason to get on that bus : the sense of community between filmmakers who gel is awesome . 
martin gets sentimental by story's end as he did in l . a . story , and how could he not ? 
for those who can hack it , the movies might be the greatest business in the world . 
>from the man who presented us with henry : the portrait of a serial killer ( 6 . 5/10 ) 
comes a wild tale set within the elite and white trash of florida's south coast . 
plot : guidance counselor ( dillon ) is accused of raping one of his students . 
she happens to be the daughter of one of the wealthiest women in florida . 
the counselor is brought to court on the charges , as another white trash girl ( campbell ) , also joins the rape finger-pointing club . 
as the story unfolds , we find that many things aren't exactly as they seem ( that's as much as i could say without ruining anything ) . 
critique : good little flick that slows down at certain points , and runs a tad long , but generates enough twists and turns to keep most people interested throughout . 
mind you , i could see many people not liking it because it takes " one too many " twists and turns , but hey , i happen to like that kind of thing . 
and besides , the twists and turns in this movie managed to remain within the realm of believability ( or scathingly close to ) , and even " explained " many of its turns with a showcase of missed scenes during the credit crawl at the end of the film ( do not leave the theatre before you see the credits . . . it 
really does clear up some stuff ! ! ) . 
other than that , the acting was good , with campbell transforming her " good girl stereotypical " role into a pot-smoking , goth-looking white trash chick out for a good time . 
denise richards ( from starship troopers ( 7/10 ) fame ) solidifies herself as hollywood's jelly-donut pinup girl of the moment , and proves that all breast implants needn't lead to lawsuits . 
bacon is solid , and so is dillon ( while continuing to prove his inability to age to the whole wide wondering world ! ! ) . 
sprinkle the story with a bunch o' shots of alligators peeking through the swamp waters , bacon showing the world the size of his ding-dong ( do we really need to see this ? ? ) , a couple of lesbian kissing scenes , and a menage-a-trois , and you've got yourself a decent time at the movie theatre . 
on the down side , the soundtrack was not as prominent ( or slick ) as i thought it would be , and theresa russell ( real name : theresa paup ) seems to have lost her way in every which way possible . . . . ooooh , 
i almost forgot bill murray's exquisite role as the down-trodden lawyer who agrees to defend dillon in court . 
murray actually added that extra little spice of humour that allowed this film to affirm its position as a quirky little noirish tale of sex , greed and mystery . 
little known facts : neve campbell specified a non-nudity clause in her contract ( she's also born in guelph , ontario . . . go 
hoser ! ) 
director john mcnaughton says he deleted a scene that would have shown matt dillon and kevin bacon showering together , as it was gratuitous . 
kevin bacon plays in a band with his brother , called the bacon brothers , is married to actress kyra sedgwick , and has a game based on him called " six degrees of kevin bacon " . 
how many of us would become strippers ? 
for those of us who wouldn't , is it a moral reason , or purely a lack of confidence ? 
that's probably not a fair question , and for a lot of us , it could very well be for neither of those reasons . 
as you watch the full monty , however , you may begin asking yourself these kinds of questions . 
would you be willing to grin and bare it to bring in some much needed dough ? 
in case you haven't guessed , the full monty is about stripping , but striptease it ain't . 
it's actually quite a charming comedy that uses its ideas with a great deal of tact and sophistication . 
it is the story of six out-of-work , out-of-shape blue collar brits whose recent job losses have left the boys penniless , but not without need . 
what to do ? 
it hits our main character gaz ( robert carlyle ) as he notices the large crowds of women who pour into a local male strip club on a regular basis . 
it seems that simple : take it off and bring in the cash . 
eventually , gaz is able to convince his friends to join him in starting their own exotic dance routine despite their initial reluctance . 
these include the overweight , confidence-lacking dave ( mark addy ) , the uptight , overly-officious gerald ( tom wilkinson ) , the once suicidal lomper ( steve huison ) , and two additional fellows who gain their place among the group by audition : horse ( paul barber ) , an older gentlemen chock full of graceless energy , and guy ( hugo speer ) , a young well-endowed looker who compares himself to cary grant . 
when the sextet is complete , we're given a hefty dose of physical comedy . 
we watch the bumbling middle-aged men choreograph pseudo-sexy dance numbers , all the while proving why none of them were strippers in the first place . 
as if there anti-appeal wasn't enough , they decide to boost interest in the group by promising " the full monty " on opening night , which for us americans , means baring it all . 
 . 
 . 
and i mean * all * . 
the movie actually ends on opening night ; a hilarious applause worthy ending i might add . 
it's sure to leave nothing short of a big smile on your face as you leave the theater . 
with the subject matter , you might not expect the fully monty to be such a feel-good , almost inspiring film , but it surprisingly turns out that way . 
the amount of light , touching drama also comes as a nice surprise , never feeling off-balance from the otherwise highly upbeat moments of the film . 
there's a lot more to this movie than you might think in other words , and the ensemble cast couldn't be better . 
each character is completely individual , interesting , funny , and most importantly , real . 
the full monty is never offensive , a very impressive attribute since its subject matter alone could've easily fallen prey to tastelessness . 
it's one of those movies that is best described as a solid piece of entertainment , perfect for a great night on the town , or as a saturday night movie rental . 
either way you see it , it shouldn't let you down in the slightest . 
and , pun heavily intended , when it's all said and done , you'll be smiling from cheek to cheek . 
director dominic sena ( who made the highly underrated kalifornia ) and producer jerry bruckheimer ( the rock , armageddon ) bring us a slick and entertaining remake of the 1974 film of the same name that absolutely no one has ever seen . 
nicolas cage plays memphis , a retired car thief who's " pulled back in " to the business by an evil car thief overlord ( christopher eccleston ) determined to kill memphis' kid brother ( giovanni ribisi ) . 
memphis is ordered to steal 50 cars in four days time or his brother will meet an unfortunate demise , all while having to elude the detectives hot on his trail and a rival car thief who feels the job should have been given to him and his gang . 
memphis sets out to put his old crew back together , but discovers that most of them have retired as well . 
gone in sixty seconds does things right from the opening credits . 
in that sequence , we get a rockin' little tune from moby , along with some simple back story told only with photographs and assorted objects . 
filmmakers can sometimes make or break a film just from its opening title sequence , and this one easily gets you in the mindset for an entertaining ride . 
and what follows doesn't disappoint . . . 
cage turns in one of his good performances here ( he can easily go either way . . . 
good or bad . . . 
i don't know how he does that ) , and his mannerisms and dialogue delivery carry the film along nicely . 
of the supporting cast members , angelina jolie as memphis' former love is in the film just to provide eye candy ( she's definitely the hottest looking grease monkey i've ever seen ) and robert duvall as memphis' former mentor is just around to lend the film some class . 
also , i'm a big fan of will patton ( armageddon , the postman ) and would love to see him get a huge role someday . 
none of these three performers are given much to do unfortunately . 
some underrated performers however are given meaty supporting roles . 
delroy lindo ( get shorty ) shines as the exasperated detective in pursuit of memphis , as does timothy olyphant ( go ) as lindo's partner . 
i just wish some of the other characters could have been as important . 
the only real gripe i have about the film though is its conclusion . . . 
mainly because you know how it will end before the opening credits even roll . 
there's no doubt in anyone's mind that the 50 cars will be successfully stolen , and the filmmakers blew a perfectly good opportunity to add some suspense to the picture by using the " rival car thief " plot line . 
as it stands , that story line is wrapped up about halfway through the film in a tidy little package . 
but if i was making this film , i'd have had the rival gang trying to get to the cars before memphis and his crew , thereby making memphis have to improvise . . . 
thereby adding some meat to the plot . 
the finale is essentially just a big car chase , and there just aren't ways to make car chases interesting anymore . 
it's all been done . 
the chase is also shot and edited in that " jerry bruckheimer action sequence " kind of way that leaves the audience wondering what specifically is going on in the scene . 
sure it's a car chase , but what exactly are the particulars of it ? 
it's very hard to tell . 
finally , there's a stunt during this scene that comes close to challenging the " bus jumping the ramp " sequence from speed in the " oh , i don't think so . . . " 
department . 
despite those minor complaints , gone in sixty seconds is pure summer movie entertainment . 
it's not thought provoking , but it's shiny , loud and fun . . . 
just what a summer flick should be . 
[pg-13] 
books could be , and indeed have been written about the star wars trilogy , and rightfully so . 
this is a set of movies that shattered all expectations of what science fiction could be in the late 70s/early 80s , inspiring literally dozens of clones , from battlestar galactica all the way up to stargate and independance day , and one could argue revitalizing the whole science fiction genre . 
the special effects were groundbreaking , revolutionary for their day and still eminently watchable well into twenty years later . 
literally millions of people have seen the star wars trilogy and been touched by it . 
and now , george lucas brings it back for a new audience to enjoy . 
much has been and is still being made of the fact that mr . lucas has gone back and revised his trilogy for rerelease now . 
some fans are angry that he has dared to meddle with what they consider perfection , while others are thrilled by the idea of seeing yesterday's star wars updated with today's special effects wizardry . 
either way , the special edition release means that star wars is back on the big screen , where it rightfully deserves to be seen . 
can there be anyone in the world who doesn't know what star wars is about ? 
in a way , star wars is so much a part of our cultural heritage that it feels silly and almost artificial to try to summarize it . 
it's a story about a young man's coming of age , a fight for freedom against an oppressive empire , a tale of swashbuckling and derring-do the likes of which haven't been seen on the silver screen in decades , strange new worlds with strange alien creatures and weird surprises around every turn , and the yearning within each of us to realize our dreams and make a difference in the world . 
it's high adventure , incredible special effects , and . . . well , it's just an _experience_ . 
something about this movie sparked the imagination of a generation . . . and 
it's about to do so again . 
this new release of star wars comes as no surprise to many of the film's devoted fans , who have been trading rumors and bits of information about it for quite some time now . 
interviews , trailers , leaks from within lucasfilm . . . all of these have been collected , collated , and placed on webpages for people to see ( pages such as http : //www . islandnet . com/~corona/films/details/sw4 . html 
or , my personal favorite , http : //leopard . cs . latrobe . edu . au/~koukoula/ 
 ) . 
pictures of before and after have been placed side by side . . . even 
months before the movies were released , fans were making comparisons . 
in some cases , the changes were nothing less than phenomenal , and this can be seen from the comparison shots even before you go into the movie theater . 
the digital matte effects that were little more than a toy in forrest gump are put to excellent use here , unnoticeably sprucing up scenes that that george lucas was unsatisfied with in the original . 
for instance , in my personal favorite example , the ancient temple on yavin that was formerly a flat stone edifice now has deep , moss-covered carvings and etchings . 
and mos eisley spaceport is now a bustling , booming city , with more surprises and things going on in the background than you can notice on the first viewing . 
all the starships and fighters are now computer-animated , getting rid of glitches and artifacts of the special effects processes used when the film was originally made--and they look _fantastic_ . 
four and a half minutes of new or missing footage have been added , including a scene with jabba the hutt that had originally been shelved because the state of special effects in 1977 simply couldn't do it justice . 
however , much of the ten million dollars that was spent on the star wars special edition restoration went into restoring the quality of the film itself . 
the negatives , badly damaged by the ravages of time , were brightened and returned to their original splendor . 
the audio tracks were remixed and reprocessed , with reworked sound effects by effects maven ben burtt , into glorious , booming , theater-shaking full-thx dolby digital stereo . 
and _that_ , more than the added scenes or new special effects , is where the real value of this new version lies . 
it's really true what they say in the commercials : star wars loses _so much_ on the small screen . 
even letterboxing doesn't make up for the decrease in size and definition . 
in regard to the star wars special edition , and to the other two films of the trilogy which have yet to be released , i'll make this final recommendation : go and see it . 
go and see it more than once . . . it 
may be another twenty years before it comes back to the big screen after it's gone this time . 
take along the youngsters who've never had the big-screen star wars experience--you'll enjoy seeing it through their eyes as much as they will enjoy it for the first time . 
there's magic in this movie--special edition or no , there can be no denying that it's still star wars , and still has the power to thrill and enthrall children of all ages , from four to four hundred . 
let's all return to that time long ago , and that galaxy far , far away . . . 
eddie murphy has had his share of ups and downs during his career . 
known for his notorious late 80's slump , murphy has still managed to bounce back with a handful of hits in the past few years . 
with the exception of the dreadful holy man , he appears to be on pace for a full-fledged comeback . 
life was a great move on the part of murphy and co-star martin lawrence , because it's a great showcase for both actors that never resorts to slap-sticky drivel . 
director ted demme is smart enough to realize that the two comedians can generate enough genuine laughs on their own , and doesn't insert a distracting plot to back them up . 
life is , in a sense , one great balancing act with murphy on one end and lawrence on the other . 
amazingly , the scale never tips in either's favor due to the marvelous chemistry and wonderful contrast that each actor allows the other . 
as the movie opens , we're introduced to ray gibson ( eddie murphy ) , a two-timing pickpocket who schmoozes his way into a club . 
there he meets a successful businessman named claude banks ( martin lawrence ) . 
somehow , after multiple contrivances , the mismatched pair find themselves on their way to mississippi on a moonshine run . 
when all is said and done , ray and claude have been framed for a murder that was actually committed by the town sheriff . 
hence the setting of life : mississippi state prison , where the main characters come to realize their unlikely friendship is important , and become set on finding an fool-proof escape plan . 
the film takes us from the 30's all the way to the 90's , presenting a difficult task in showing how the aging process affects ray and claude . 
luckily , rick baker handles the makeup effects of the two actors in a fantastic , academy award caliber manner . 
not only do we believe the characters look as if they're 90 years old , but they sound like it , too . 
murphy and lawrence are completely convincing in the lead roles , even as crotchety old cons bickering over a game of cards . 
this is just one of the pleasant surprises that the film has tucked up it's sleeve . 
while the ads are marketing life as a straight arrow comedy , there is a hefty amount of dramatic material hidden at it's core . 
but the comedic aspects work wonderfully , wisely drawing strength from the talents of the two stars . 
the movie is more of a comedy than it is a drama , but in both senses , it's an overwhelming delight . 
i could say a few bad things about the movie , but i don't want to . 
it's such a nice surprise , such a great vehicle for eddie murphy and martin lawrence , that it warrants a huge smile as the credits begin to roll . 
cinematically speaking , gordon parks' original 1971 _shaft_ is not a great film . 
a bit slow at times and more than a little rough around the edges as it builds to its climactic explosion of violent action , this spirited but formulaic yarn that initially brought ernest tidyman's " black private dick that's a sex machine to all the chicks " to the big screen hardly qualifies as groundbreaking filmmaking . 
yet nearly 30 years after its original release--and long after the genre it spawned , " blaxploitation , " died with that decade--the 1971 _shaft_ remains an extremely entertaining watch , never having completely escaped pop culture consciousness . 
the reason for this is the same one that explains the film's connection with moviegoers far beyond the target african-american audience : the title character of john shaft . 
while the fact that the strong , smart , virile , and superbly suave shaft is black is the primary factor for his historical and cultural significance , his broad-based appeal stems from an idea that transcends race : he is comfortable , confident , and proud about who he is , and anyone who had a problem with that could simply kiss his ass . 
this fact also explains why john singleton's y2g revival of john shaft is as enjoyable as it is . 
much like the film that started the franchise , this _shaft_'s plot doesn't score points in the originality department , but the energy level and smooth attitude distinguishes it from standard crime thrillers . 
contrary to what has been reported over the past few months , this _shaft_ is not a remake of the original film , but more of a sequel/spinoff . 
the star audiences know and love from the original film and its first two sequels ( 1972's _shaft's_big_score ! _ and 1973's _shaft_in_africa_ ) , richard roundtree , once again plays john shaft , who still runs a private investigation firm in new york city . 
however , the focus of the film lies on his same-named nephew ( samuel l . jackson ) , who , as the film begins , is a cop whose take-no-crap demeanor constantly leaves him at odds with his superiors . 
when a privileged young man named walter wade jr . ( christian bale ) accused of a brutal , racially-motivated murder is allowed to be released on bail , a disgusted shaft leaves the force and decides to take matters into his own hands as a p . i . 
but that's easier said than done , for also standing in the way of shaft and his way of justice is peoples hernandez ( jeffrey wright ) , a dominican gangster who is hired by walter to rub out waitress diane palmieri ( toni collette ) , the only eyewitness to his crime . 
peoples--or , rather , wright is also the big obstacle in jackson's way toward commanding this film . 
peoples is more of an outrageous comic character for most of the running time , and wright is insanely funny during these stages . 
however , he isn't so funny as to make the character come off as goofy and buffoonish , and peoples' eventual turn to more serious villainy is seamless and believable ( which probably would not have been the case had he been played by original casting choice john leguizamo , who bowed out before filming ) . 
it's no easy task to steal a film from the jackson ( who is his usual captivating , charismatic self here ) , but that's exactly what wright does--and makes it seem effortless . 
then again , with such a talented ensemble surrounding him , it is not too surprising that jackson's impressive star turn doesn't quite tower over the rest ; he is strongly complemented not only by wright but all his other co-stars . 
bale has already proven his ability to play an uppity killer in _american_psycho_ , so it only follows that his performance as a similar , less exaggerated character would be spot-on . 
collette lends the film some convincing and welcome dramatic weight as the frightened , conflicted diane . 
busta rhymes brings some good laughs as shaft's sidekick rasaan . 
registering not as strongly--but through no fault of their own--are vanessa williams ( as tough narcotics cop carmen vasquez ) and a dismayingly underused roundtree ; they simply are given little to do in the script credited to richard price , singleton , and shane salerno . 
 ( jackson also has little to " do " in a sense ; some throwaway footage during the opening credits aside , his shaft doesn't even have one sex scene . ) 
that singleton once again proves his ability with actors is an especially good thing since he's not really an action director . 
this is not to say that he does a bad job with the numerous gunfights and the requisite foot and car chases . 
they move well ( as does the film as a whole ) and are reasonably exciting ; it's just that there's nothing terribly inventive about them . 
these set pieces are functional in the way the script is : they work well enough , but they're unsurprising and conventional . 
but if there's anything that a _shaft_ movie does well , it's make the familiar look cool--and this _shaft_ keeps that tradition alive . 
from the slick title sequence--scored , of course , to isaac hayes' ever-infectious oscar-winning theme song , which singleton wisely sprinkles throughout the film--on , the film looks great and easily sweeps the viewer into its world with its energetic bravado . 
even a common visual trick such as employing fancy wipes for scene transitions not only feels unforced , it feels necessary . 
style doesn't exactly make for a great film , but when it comes to _shaft_ , that's of little consequence . 
what matters above all else is having a good time , and the latest _shaft_ should be just the first of many fun rides to be had with this bad mutha--shut your mouth . 
uncompromising french director robert bresson's " lancelot of the lake " achieves the exact opposite effect of sir thomas malory's " morte darthur . " 
instead of enshrining the legend of king arthur and his knights of the round table , it dethrones them by revealing arthur as a weak , ineffectual leader and the knights as a group of jealous , bickering men who failed to live up to the legends prescribed to them . 
chivalry has no place in " lancelot of the lake , " except as that of a dying ideal . 
bresson begins his tale as the knights of the round table are returning , decimated , after failing merlin's command to retrieve the holy grail , the mystical cup that was filled with christ's blood . 
bresson immediately gives us his impression of the essential meaning of the grail quest : bloodshed and failure . 
the opening sequence is a series of clumsy , disjointed fights amongst anonymous knights -- a head is hacked off , a stomach is impaled , a skull is split open , skeletal remains hang from trees , and burning bodies smolder in the ruins of a flaming house . 
since the film starts with camelot in near-ruin , and takes only an hour and a half to arrive at its inevitable conclusion , it doesn't carry the grand , tragic resonance of other arthurian films . 
we never get to see camelot at the peak of its power , therefore there is no real downfall to witness . 
but , then again , it is not the name of camelot that is evoked in the title of the film . 
rather , it is lancelot , and bresson is more interested in the internal battle within his heart , than the external downfall of a kingdom . 
lancelot has always been a tragic figure in the arthurian tales , and bresson uses him as the central figure to explore the battle between the spirit and the flesh . 
the greatest of all knights , he was flawed only in his love for arthur's wife , queen guinevere , and it was that illicit affair that eventually caused the downfall of camelot . 
even when lancelot attempts to end the affair with guinevere ( laura duke condominas ) , he only finds himself falling back into her arms against his better judgment . 
he knows it means the destruction of the idealized kingdom , but he is powerless in his passion . 
when sir mordred ( patrick bernhard ) accuses lancelot of the affair , other knights , including sir gawain ( humbert balsan ) spring to lancelot's defense . 
it is this battle within the knights that is the eventual undoing of the round table ; the flesh wins out over the spirit , and the consequences are dire . 
bresson is an intensely personal filmmaker most interested in the interiors of men's hearts and minds . 
 " lancelot of the lake " is filled with his particular trademarks : a stripped-down , minimalist style , flat , expressionless dialogue , and a grand use of natural sounds in place of music . 
he uses background music only twice in the film , during an opening narration segment and during the opening credits . 
the music here is a heavy drumbeat and accompanying bagpipes , but the rest of the film is scored with natural sounds that punctuate the film's thematic elements : the incessant clanking and creaking of heavy armor , the neighing of horses , the rhythm of hooves beating down dirt roads , and the natural chirping and whispering of the forest . 
like most of his other films , bresson employed nonprofessional actors who recite the dialogue in emotionless , flat voices . 
all the actors he used in " lancelot of the lake " had never acted before , and with the exception of patrick bernhard , they never acted again . 
never once do they raise their voices or put any emphasis on a given word . 
instead of using vocal inflection , bresson strove to create emotion through images . 
in some ways , this technique works ; in other ways , it doesn't . 
the final montage of arthur's men battling each other is quite marvelous , and the final image of the knights in shining armor reduced to a literal scrap-pile sums up the entire film in one moment . 
however , other times bresson's uncompromising methods are distracting and questionable . 
for instance , during an important jousting contest , bresson films the majority of the action so that the only things visible are the horses' legs . 
he does this repeatedly , opening each shot with the same few notes from a bagpipe and the raising of a different flag . 
while there might be symbolic value in this , the resulting experience of watching it can be bothersome . 
nevertheless , " lancelot of the lake " is a fascinating cinematic experience boldly made by a master filmmaker . 
bresson's style may not be for everyone , but one has to respect his strength as an artist . 
by re-evaluating the arthurian legends and making them his own , he turns " lancelot of the lake " into something rare in modern cinema : a truly personal film . 
capsule : the best place to start if you're a jackie chan newcomer . 
roars along , never stops for breath , and frequently hilarious . 
to talk about jackie chan as a " stuntman " is to miss a million things . 
jackie is not only one of the most accomplished and fearsomely unafraid physical adepts on the screen today , but also a very funny guy . 
he reminds me of the way arnold schwartzenegger * used * to make me laugh -- he's funny just standing there , copping a look . 
supercop has jackie making us laugh , scream , duck , root , and gasp for breath , often all in the same scene . 
it's actually the third in a loosely related series of movies , each with jackie playing kevin chan , a hong kong policeman who has a knack for getting neck-deep into trouble and then karate-kicking his way out of it . 
 ( the others are also worth seeing . ) 
it's a little slow to start , but once it gets moving , it's a field day . 
the movie has a fairly sophisticated plot for movies of this kind . 
kevin is tapped for a dangerous dea assignment to be accomplished in mainland china , which requires him to collaborate with the attractive ( and ass-kicking ) chief fo chinese security ( played here by the ever-enjoyable michelle yeoh ) . 
there's a fun chemistry between the two of them , especially in an early scene where she tries to brief him and he keeps making wondering comments about how great she looks in that uniform . 
kevin is assigned to help spring a known gangster from jail -- all undercover , of course -- and have him lead the two of them to a noted drug boss . 
the drug boss , however , has problems of his own : his wife's on trial for many of his own crimes , and she's got the key to an account with all of his drug funds . 
this means , of course , endless trouble -- not the least of which is that kevin bumps into his girlfriend while he's out in the field , and she sees him with this other woman , and . . . but that's one of the movie's unique pleasures : the way it crosses from action to comedy effortlessly . 
action . there is , of course , non-stop action in this movie -- everything from one-on-one kung fu to all-out gun battles to a sppedboat with eight engines ( ! ) 
outrunning the hong kong coast guard . 
there is also a virtuoso climax , which features , among other things , jackie danging from a ladder tied to a helicopter , a wrong-way freeway chase ( which requires michelle to do an awesomely difficult handstand stunt ) , a fight on top of a moving train that also involves the 'copter as well as a motorcycle . 
you get the idea . 
this is to action movies what a burger with everything on it is to fast food : quick , enjoyable , filling . 
watch it with friends . 
when they stop making movies like this , the world will be a tad greyer . 
the calendar year has not even reached its midway point , but that hasn't prevented columbia pictures from trotting out a lavish period drama more befitting of the winter oscar-bait season . 
bille august's high-profile adaptation of victor hugo's classic les miserables delivers everything one would expect from a classy hollywood epic--handsome production values , strong performances by a top-notch cast , a literate screenplay--with one critically missing element : emotional sweep . 
for those not familiar with hugo's original novel or the hit stage musical it inspired , the hook of les miserables essentially boils down to something like a 19th-century french-set version of the fugitive . 
after serving 19 years in a prison work camp for stealing a loaf of bread , the brutish jean valjean ( liam neeson ) is paroled . 
immediately upon release , he steals valuable silverware from a kindly bishop who takes him in for a night ; he is caught by authorities , only to be forgiven by the bishop , who lets valjean keep the silver to start a new life on the straight and narrow . 
that he does , and in doing so breaks his parole , which sets the obsessively determined inspector javert ( geoffrey rush ) , who was one of the guards in valjean's prison camp , on his trail . 
thematically , however , les miserables is a story about redemption , which valjean finds through his dealings with two women , the hard-luck factory-worker-turned-prostitute fantine ( uma thurman ) , and her illegitimate daughter , cosette . 
years after breaking parole , valjean becomes mayor of the town of vigau , where he forms a warm friendship with fantine after saving her from an unjust arrest by javert . 
valjean promises the gravely ill fantine he will rescue the young cosette ( mimi newman ) from her cruel caretakers , the thenardiers , and raise the child as his own . 
the " father " and " daughter " eventually land in paris , where the teenage cosette ( claire danes ) falls for dashing student revolutionary marius ( hans matheson ) . 
the decades-spanning story is the stuff that cinematic epics are made of , and the danish august turns in his most accomplished english-language work , following the underrated 1994 superstar soap the house of the spirits and last year's stylish but highly preposterous mystery smilla's sense of snow . 
he and screenwriter rafael yglesias bring the sprawling tale into clear focus and keep the events moving at a brisk pace . 
production designer anna asp , costume designer gabriella pescucci , and cinematographer jorgen persson give les miserables a sumptuous period look whose accomplishment is mostly matched by the efforts of the cast . 
neeson is commanding yet endearingly vulnerable ; rush's finely modulated menace is far more rewarding than his overrated , oscar-winning theatrics in shine ; and thurman disappears nicely into her highly unglamorous role . 
the younger members of the cast fare less well . 
danes is convincing as cosette , but her overdone lip quivering during her crying scenes becomes a distraction ; and matheson , while competent , is a less interesting robert sean leonard . 
as technically adept and cerebrally engaging the film is , by the time les miserables was over , my emotions had only been superficially involved . 
while i was touched by valjean's relationships with fantine and cosette , i was not moved . 
not even reaching the " touching " level is the cosette-marius pairing . 
my only previous experience with les miserables is with the musical ( as i am sure many others' is ) , and i was dismayed to see eponine , a friend of marius's who selflessly dies in the name of her unspoken love for him , almost completely jettisoned from this adaptation ( the daughter of the thenardiers , here she is only briefly seen as a child ) . 
her presence would have added some much-needed conflict and emotional heft to the youthful romance , but i suppose august and yglesias felt one tragic heroine ( fantine ) was enough . 
even so , as 1998 creeps into summer blockbuster season , les miserables is a thoughtful , well-made , entertaining film , one that will sate moviegoers hungry for a dose of drama before popcorn no-brainers invade the multiplex . 
an entertaining 2 hours awaits the audience in this film set in the early 80's . 
sevigny and beckinsale play disco chicks alice and charlotte , who are on the lookout for love . 
alice is mousy , shy , intellectual , charlotte is bitchy , out-going and fun . 
we join their adventures as they go through a variety of adventures , and men , all to the background of the local disco . 
whit stillman has both written and directed an interesting and believable story . 
alice and charlotte are both well written characters , and the actresses who play them aren't bad aswell . 
sevigny delivers an honest performance , and makes the audience feel for her character . 
beckinsale plays extreme bitch personified , yet her character never becomes completely unlikeable . 
the huge supporting cast also play a part in making sure this movie is thoroughly entertaining . 
the dialogue is sharp and well written , with many funny set pieces . 
for example , there's a great discussion about lady & the tramp by the main characters . 
the disco tunes playing in the background also make sure that this admittedly long film is good fun . 
the direction is good , bringing out the drama and comedy in the scenes . 
but their are slight flaws with the movie . 
firstly , although it is supposedly set in the 80's , the characters are very , very 90's . 
the way they dress and act have a very 90's feel to them . 
although the male hairstyles look slightly 80's , frankly the 80's atmosphere just wasn't conveyed , which is a shame . 
also , as mentioned above , the film is too long , and some parts do lag . 
the charm of the characters do help these moments , but generally the editing could of been a bit tighter . 
the plot also side-tracks into a silly cocaine dealing bust , which seemed out of place in this movie . 
finally , their are almost too many characters in the film , and despite the running time , the film never really spends enough time on them . 
some of the characters are very slight , which is a shame . 
the conclusion , while funny , is also surprisingly weak , and certainly not strong enough . 
but despite these qualms , the last days of disco is a funny , warm movie , which is certainly worth seeing , and is a fitting homage to the disco era of the 80's . 
worth a look . 
overall rating= 
review by david wilcock ? 1998 
 " you know , for kids " - norville barnes 
gordon fleming ( peter mullan ) is in a bind . 
he has a new , unexpected baby and his business , hazardous material removal , is in danger of going under . 
when he and his crew get a job opportunity at the long-abandoned danvers state hospital , he underbids the competition to secure the contract and promises to get the three-week job done in one . 
it will prove to be a fateful week for them all in " session 9 . " 
gordo gets the job to remove asbestos and other hazardous materials from the spooky old mental hospital in preparation for relocating town offices there . 
their guided tour of the facility by a local official , bill giggs ( paul guilfoyle ) , brings them through some of the creepier parts of the former asylum . 
but , a job is a job and , if they finish in a week , as promised , there is a $10000 bonus in store . 
as they get down to their work , things , normal and not so normal , begin to happen . 
gordon hears a disembodied voice beckoning him . 
phil ( david caruso ) is conflicted working with a guy , hank ( josh lucas ) , who is seeing his old girlfriend . 
mike ( co-screenwriter steven gevedon ) has discovered a cache of audiotapes and transcripts from old psychiatric sessions ( hence , the title ) with inmate mary hobbs , a multi-personality patient with a dark secret . 
gordo's nephew , jeff ( brendan sexton iii ) , suffers from night phobia and is afraid to venture into the dark bowels of the hospital . 
as the agreed upon week draws to an end , hank mysteriously disappears from the workplace after a nocturnal confrontation with someone ( something ? ) in the hospital . 
tensions mount and distrust build among the rest as they watch their chance for the bonus start to slip away . 
but , there is more , much more , at stake as the hospital and its history of insanity weigh on them all . 
i don't want to give away too much of the story of " session 9 , " so i'll stop there . 
what we have here is a spooky horror flick that uses none of the jump-out-at-you-from-the-dark cheap shots that have become part and parcel with horror films since the advent of " halloween " and " friday the thirteenth . " 
there is no cat leaping out of the dark or the shock of suddenly seeing oneself in a strategically placed mirror . 
with the exception of one shadowy and chilling image at one point spooky interlude in the film , there is little that you can get your arms around as far as what , specifically , is " frightening . " 
as i watched " session 9 " i became aware of the subtle things that built up during the story that make it a true horror movie . 
the striking high-definition video camera work by uta briesewitz ( who worked with the director , brad anderson , on his " next stop wonderland " ) helps to build up tension with close-ups , fluid camera movement and odd angles in a way that would make alfred hitchcock proud . 
music , too , is used to intense effect , joining with the camera to make simple scenes frightening , even horrifying . 
couple these tech feats with an intelligent story that uses elements of " the shining , " " the blair witch project " and , even " the texas chainsaw massacre " and you get a decent , intriguing horror flick . 
additionally , the brilliant decision to shoot at danvers state hospital gives the film another starring character , the institution itself , which lends even more chills to the equation . 
acting is another factor that raises " session 9 " above the usual dreck presented in recent horror hits like " scream , " " i know what you did last summer " and their sequels . 
those films took good-looking , though generic , young actors and actresses and put them to use to build up a body count , substituting mayhem for real horror . 
anderson opted , instead , to use mature , experienced actors like peter mullan and david caruso to fill his characters' shoes and the difference in casting quality is notable . 
mullan , in particular , puts an arc on his character , gordon , as the troubled guy who slowly and inexorably falls under the pressures of family , job and , finally , danvers state hospital . 
the rest of the small cast fit the bill as people , not just fodder for the mayhem . 
david caruso , as gordo's senior man and near equal in the business , shows just how good an actor he is . 
he made the jump from tv's " nypd blue " to film far too soon and his decisions in the roles he took ( i'll never forget the horrendous " jade " ) were less than star making . 
he rolls his sleeves up and does the job well here . 
gevedon , lucas and sexton are more than fodder , too . 
the only problem with " session 9 " lay in the uninspired ending . 
it takes on a fairly conventional finale that covers old ground and is a bit of a disappointment after the terrific ( and inspired ) build up . 
the pleasure is getting there and i wish that anderson and gevedon had kept up the steam they had so ably built during the bulk of the film 
 " session 9 " is an unusual feat . 
it is scary , doesn't use cheap tricks and raises goose bumps with its intelligently rendered , subtle horror . 
because of the local interest of danvers , it should do well with the northeast crowd . 
i hope it gets the national distribution it deserves . 
i give it a b+ . 
the latest epos from lars is a blast , although a rather moody one . 
this lovestory is situated in a small town in the rough dreary cliffs in the vestern part of scotland in the 1970 something . 
the church ( calvinistic ) is so strict that the church bells has been removed from the clocktower , they are considered being too unrestrained . 
in these surroundings we find the to-be-weds jan and bess , played by stellan skarsgaard and the remarkable new movie actress emily watson . 
jan is on leave from the oilrig and bess . . 
is just bess , a bit naive and innocent ( in every aspect of the word ) , at first . 
at the wedding party we are told an anecdote , illustrating her infinite kindness , she once lend a bike to an stranger , her best friends bike however . 
but bess is suffering in this scary religious society . 
we soon take part in a funeral where a man , fallen off the orthodox path , is laid to rest while doomed to hell . 
women are not allowed to attend funerals or speak up in the church . 
when the end of the honeymoon approaches we see bess idolizing jan in such an intend , almost manic , that her friends try to calm her down a bit . 
the time has come when jan is to return to the rig , bess is falling into the darkness of depression , her yelling of grief and sorrow are heard above the breaking of the waves . 
she can't stand the thought of life without her husband . 
we witness her dialogues with god ( she speaks both parts , paranoia ? ) 
convincing god to return jan from the oilrig , and her prayers are heard . 
an accident on the rig bring him back , paralysed from the neck and down . 
now he can't satisfy her need for physical love , he try to persuade her into finding a lover , with the ulterior motive to make her describe these affairs to him in every detail . 
at first she resist , but her love for jan and his assurance that this will make him recover more rapidly make her comply . 
imagine what this is doing to the poor girl ? 
the story is cleverly divided into eight chapters parted by beautiful pictures made by danish artist per kirkeby , accompanied by music from the era ; procol harum , deep purple , t-rex and others . 
the use of hand-held camera and lack of any make-up make the characters solid and help to separate this movie from others in the sentimental genre . 
the incredible performance from the actors makes the movie brilliant , though a bit too gloomy for my taste . 
i would say that it is in the genre of betty blue ( 37 . 2 le matin ) and bitter moon ( lunes de fiel ) . 
emily watson as bess and katrin cartlidge as her best friend dodo deliver outstanding performances , this must be the reason for giving it the " grand prix du jury " in cannes this year ( although we had hoped for the " palme d'or " ) . 
the screenplay is now available in print , the transformation being made in the period from ultimo may to july , just in time for the danish premiere . 
anastasia contains something that has been lacking from all of the recent disney releases . . . 
 ( especially hercules ) . . . 
emotion . 
all the wacky characters voiced by celebrities and fantastically animated adventure sequences aren't going to hold anyone's interest unless there is an emotional core to hold it all together . 
not since disney's beauty & the beast has there been such a compelling animated film with interesting characters and drama that works . 
the story of the romanov family , the rulers of russia , and their downfall begins the film . 
anastasia , one of the daughters , narrowly escapes the mad monk rasputin ( voiced by christopher lloyd ) with her grandmother ( voiced by angela landsbury ) . 
but anastasia gets lost , and grows up with no memory of her royal origins . 
the grandmother lives in paris , hoping to someday find her beloved anastasia , the only member of the family to survive the russian revolution . 
a young woman named anya ( voiced by meg ryan ) runs across dimitri ( john cusack ) and vlad ( kelsey grammar ) , who are trying to put together a scheme to create an anastasia to fool the grandmother and get the reward money . 
they pick anya to pose as their princes , and of course , it is soon revealed that anya is in fact the lost anastasia . 
dimitri realizes that he can never win her love as he is a commoner , and meanwhile , rasputin is not dead , and plots his revenge against the last romanov . 
the plot is actually quite well structured . 
there are a lot of complexities that may have to be explained to the kids later , but it moves along fast enough that they'll never have time to be bored . 
what this really means is that the adults won't be bored by it either . 
there is a great deal of banter between anya and dimitri that is very funny , and their relationship develops quite naturally as the film progresses . 
there is , of course , lots of comedy for the kids , including rasputin's pet bat , bartok ( hank azaria ) , who is easily the funniest thing in the film . 
however , the comical scenes never distract from the drama , but are worked into the plot almost seamlessly . 
the animation is gorgeous - the characters seem to come to life through the talented animators . 
not since beauty & the beast have animated characters had so much life to them . 
even without the voices , they act . 
the musical number in paris is a show-stopper , with some of the backgrounds rendered in an impressionist painting style . 
as with all recent animated features , there are songs , however , these songs do more than just provide fodder for top-40 singers to get on the radio ( although there are three of them during the end credits ) . 
the songs are all very catchy , and advance the plot , instead of just being showpieces ( except for the paris number , but that's so much fun , it's okay . . . ) . 
i can't reccomend anastasia highly enough . 
it's a wonderful film that ranks right up there with other animated classics . 
kids and adults alike will enjoy it , and it's also nice to have a quality animated feature film from another studio besides disney . 
i can hear the question already . 
what on earth do these two movies have in common ? 
to most people , not a lot , except that both are by renowned directors . 
as i saw them , however , both movies have flawed romantic scripts wrapped in distinctive packaging of lavish visuals musical numbers . 
but oh , how differently the packages affect their films . 
while " everyone's " production numbers make an otherwise ordinary woody tale something special , jane campion's imaginative visuals only serve to emphasize how pompous and uninvolving laura jones' script is . 
i left " everyone says i love you " not remembering a lot about who loved whom , but its infectious happiness put a grin on my face . 
i left " the portrait of a lady " not remembering a lot about who loved whom , and i could have cared less . 
 " everyone " features nothing allen hasn't done before storywise . 
woody is again desperately in love with a beautiful woman ( roberts ) , and against the odds they manage to click for awhile before allen is left wondering what went wrong--again . 
similar situations happen to his family and friends . 
some of the more outlandish comedy scenes even hark back to his " early , funny " films . 
the scenes between tim roth and drew barrymore could have come out of " take the money and run , " his directorial debut . 
however , nothing allen has ever done prepared me for this one-of-a-kind display of sheer good spirits . 
in fact , in this movie , the feeling itself is what's most important . 
yes , the movie would have been better--among his very best , i think--if it had a meatier story . 
but what it lacks in substance it makes up for in feeling . 
and what better way to express feeling than through music ? 
love is often best expressed in a song , and the numbers the cast break into here cut straight to the heart . 
some are a tad too goofy , such as the number where a lot of ghosts prance around in a funeral parlor , but i admired allen for even putting them in there . 
it also helps that as usual , allen has a top-flight cast working with him . 
their singing voices range from quite good ( goldie hawn ) to not quite good ( allen ) to literally unlistenable ( barrymore , whose real voice was dubbed by a professional ) . 
but while their vocal abilities differ , all the actors do a great job of putting joy up there on the screen , and making it rub off on the audience . 
granted , some people will simply never accept characters singing in movies , but for those attuned to it , this film should work wonders . 
jane campion , too , has a top-flight cast working for her in " portrait of a lady , " too , but even their considerable skills can do nothing to keep the film from being a stilted , virtually lifeless mess , albeit a visually interesting one . 
campion and her cinematographer stuart dryburgh come up with a great variety of eye-filling images that linger in the mind . 
unfortunately , what didn't linger in the mind for me was the story the visuals were supposed to be reflecting . 
i remember very well shots of a train with its light beaming and shots of men vanishing around nicole kidman , but i can remember very little of what happened between all these people . 
even worse , i don't find myself feeling bad that i've forgotten . 
the problem , i think , lies not with the cast , which seemed to be trying very hard for the material . 
it was the script that couldn't convince me to care about anyone . 
the characters were putting out all kinds of emotion , but i found no reason to connect with any of them . 
i understood that the story was about cold , emotionally vacant characters , but for me to care about them , i have to identify with them somehow and want them to inject feeling into their lives . 
jones' script never simply gave me that opportunity . 
in the end , it almost seemed as if campion was trying to inject some life of her own into the proceedings with her visual flourishes . 
unfortunately , as she kept painting these dazzling pictures , they only served to push me further away from the material and remind me that there was no connection between me and the film . 
in the end , the movie's one strength ended up hurting it . 
so here we have two films with pretty uninteresting plots , and yet i was able to truly enjoy one of them . 
why ? 
with both films , my head cared about neither story , but only " everyone says i love you " was able to make my heart sing . 
you've got to think twice before you go see a movie with a title like maximum risk . 
the title is generic . 
it's meaningless . 
and i can't believe it's good business . 
when you pick up the phone and dial 777-film , how in the world are you supposed to remember that the new jean-claude van damme movie , the one that looked kind of cool in the trailers and is directed by some chinese hot shot , is called , geez , maximum risk ? 
yuck . 
the movie itself deserves your attention . 
for sweet bloody thrills , this one beats the summer blockbuster competition hands-down . 
only mission : impossible came close to delivering as skillful a thriller , and i'll give maximum risk the edge simply because it's not as slick as the tom cruise picture , and therefore more gratifying in its execution . 
much to my surprise , van damme continues to develop as a pleasant , unpretentious action hero . 
his track record isn't as solid as schwarzenegger's , but he's a hell of a lot more adventurous than arnold . 
in 1993 , van damme worked with hong kong's premier hardcore action director , john woo , on a fairly lame movie called hard target . 
 ( if you can find a bootleg copy , woo's radically different director's cut is much better than what was eventually released . ) 
this follow-up is directed by ringo lam ( city on fire , full contact ) , whose hong kong films are distinguished action pictures that have consistently played second fiddle to woo's more operatic offerings . 
the surprise here is that maximum risk is a more effective hollywood action flick than either hard target or woo's subsequent broken arrow . 
here's the rundown . 
van damme plays a french cop named alain moreau who is shaken when a policeman friend ( jean-hugues anglade ) finds a corpse that's alain's exact double . 
turns out alain was separated at birth from his twin brother , michael , who has been killed by some russian heavies ( and some strangely american looking cops ) . 
alain does some investigating . 
he finds that michael had booked a flight to new york city , and received a message from someone there named alex bohemia . 
assuming michael's identity , alain flies to new york and gets tangled up with michael's girlfriend ( natasha henstridge ) , the fbi , and the russian mob in little odessa . 
that's as much as you need to know . 
the story is adequate , but not overly involving -- and the major plot points are basically explained to you twice , just in case you go out for popcorn at the wrong moment . 
there's a love story , too , but i didn't find it terribly convincing , partly because ex-model henstridge is too high-strung in her high-profile debut ( she had precious few lines as the alien ice queen in species ) . 
she's great to look at , and she can certainly read a line , but what she does here can't really be described as " acting . " 
of course , " acting " isn't really what she was hired for ( i lost track of whether her shirt comes off more often than van damme's ) . 
the movie is exceptionally violent , bordering on gratuity . 
 ( keep that in mind when planning your date . ) 
the stunts are spectacular , and the fact that you can spot van damme's stand-in makes his work no less impressive . 
there's only so much you can do with a car wreck , but this movie makes crisp , effective use of pile-ups in a handful of frenzied destruction derbies . 
and lam has a surprising , innovative sense of exactly where the camera should go to catch any bit of action . 
the main difference between lam and woo , i believe , is that while woo relies on sheer spectacle to gas up his action show pieces , lam has figured out more about using cinematic space and double-barreled points of view to make things run . 
don't get me wrong -- when chow yun-fat soars through space pumping bullets out of two pistols and chewing on a toothpick with glass and confetti littering the air around him in woo's hard-boiled , it's an amazing moment . 
but it's a moment that's hard to reproduce in hollywood . 
 ( for one thing , hollywood doesn't yet have chow yun-fat ! ) 
while woo's hollywood movies look like the work of a talented upstart , maximum risk is a surprisingly confident picture . 
the very first shot of the film is an awkward overhead view of a chase through the streets of a european city , but lam's use of odd camera angles becomes more efficient later on . 
the film editing is a particularly savvy complement to lam's shooting style , accentuating rather than amplifying the action . 
the performances could have used some fine tuning ( in particular , there's an annoying , overwritten manhattan cab driver in the early scenes who should have been toned down or jettisoned completely ) , and the movie doesn't always overcome the limitations of its genre . 
the story is a little mundane , although there are some effective moments involving van damme's unrequited feelings toward the brother he never knew he had . 
but it's not often that hollywood cranks out a truly satisfying action picture , and it's doubly surprising that this one should come with a mere whisper of publicity . 
van damme fans should treat themselves to what may well be the man's best movie , and international action buffs will no doubt savor this flavorful hong kong/hollywood hybrid . 
in many ways , " twotg " does for tough-guy movies what la confidential did for police stories . 
there's savviness in its writing and a mature patience in allowing the material to unfold . 
but , i suppose , we wouldn't expect less from christopher mcquarrie , who was responsible for giving us " the usual suspects " . 
his writing talents are still in tact as he brings to us a bloody yet intellectual tale of two unabashed but dimwitted thugs and a plan gone awry . 
the two goons are parker and longbaugh ( ryan phillipe and benicio del toro ) . 
these two men show the hardened wear of those who have always had it tough . 
their troubled youths have forged two nihilistic souls who use their amazing gunplay skills to survive . 
given the choice of minimum wage or petty crime , they'll always choose the latter . 
yet , they are incredibly foolish planners . 
actually , these two never really have a plan . 
they just improvise along the way , hoping that their bravado and arsenal of guns will take care of anything that they might have overlooked . 
their next scheme , which they cook up about as fast as a mcdonald's burger , is to kidnap some surrogate mother named robin ( juliette lewis ) that was hired by some well-to-do family . 
if all goes well , they'll receive a nice bit of ransom money and life goes on . 
what parker and longbaugh do not realize is that robin is carrying a baby for the chidduck family , whose patriarch is a feared crime boss . 
moreover , two bodyguards ( nicky katt and taye diggs ) constantly escort her . 
these two protectors find an eerie sense of pleasure when being confronted and tested in life and death situations . 
they would rather die than fail ; thus their bravado level is equally high . 
but it seems that the testosterone levels of parker and longbaugh are a bit higher , and they employ some unusual but fun-to-watch tactics to pull off the kidnapping and to outrun the pursuers in a sort of slow-motion car chase down a series of alleyways . 
the next hour or so , we watch the chidduck camp regroup and assess their situation . 
during this time , additional plot lines come into play and more and more details are revealed . 
because the chidduck's can not go to the police and because of the special circumstances involving the kidnapping , we are introduced to more characters that will help to influence the outcome . 
we discover that not everyone in the chidduck camp is loyal to the cause . 
as a result , there are undercurrents of a conspiracy , and elements of betrayal and subterfuge . 
the sepia-toned atmosphere is made all the more fascinating thanks to a terrific soundtrack which emits velvet forebodings , shrills of intrigue and crescendos that tell us of life and death situations that are about to occur . 
the momentum and the coolness of the film , however , begins to fizzle in the last 30 minutes , which featured an overly extended shootout where our two desperados try to make their way off with the ransom money . 
you can expect lots of bloodletting and an odd denouement . 
in fact , you may admire this film more than you like it . 
yet , for the most part , " the way of the gun " stays on target . 
it feels cool with its elements of conspiracy and gunplay , and smart for its invective dialogue and tough guy poetry . 
marie ( charlotte rampling , " aberdeen " ) and jean ( bruno cremet , " sorcerer " ) are a comfortable , sixty-ish married couple looking forward to a peaceful vacation at their second home in lit et mix . 
on their first , full day , marie sunbathes as jean goes for a swim . 
hours later , marie's initiated a full scale search when jean hasn't returned , but no trace of him is found . 
marie returns to paris and resumes her life , including chats with jean at the end of each day in francois ozon's " under the sand . " 
marie's ex-pat british friend amanda ( alexandra stewart , " frantic " ) and her french husband gerard ( pierre vernier ) try to snap marie out of her denial with a dinner party , where they introduce her to the handsome vincent ( jacques nolot , " nenette et boni " ) , yet marie suggests that gerard accompany her and jean to their gym the next morning . 
eventually marie does begin dating vincent , but she discusses him with jean and even smiles at jean , hidden behind a bedroom curtain , when she makes love to vincent . 
slowly , though , reality continues to chip away at marie's fantasy life . 
her bank advises her that without access to jean's account , she needs to reduce her spending . 
one of her university students ( she's reading virginia woolf's " the waves " ) turns out to be one of the young men who participated in the beach search . 
then police arrive asking her to identify the clothing of a body they've found washed up from the ocean . 
that night , jean's not at home when she returns to their apartment . 
her mother-in-law ( andree tainsy ) cruelly 
insists that jean simply abandoned her out of boredom . 
finally , marie goes to the police , insisting on viewing the body . 
horrified ( she's been warned it was 
in an advanced state of putrefaction ) , she laughs when handed a bagged watch , insisting that this is not her husband . 
 " under the sand " is a character study and melancholy portrait of aging ( 'i've lost my youth , ' marie declares ) and loss . 
charlotte rampling , given the chance to portray an older , yet still sexual , woman runs with it , bringing us into the mind of the character . 
her chemistry with bruno cremet is startlingly natural . 
as marie returns from her first date with vincent , she sits on the couch with jean . 
'did he kiss you ? ' he asks . 
the mood the two create is incredibly intimate and sad . 
ozon ( " water drops on burning rocks , " " see the sea " ) , who cowrote the script with emmanuelle bernheim , marcia romano , and marina de van , has turned in a more mature work than his previous , creepy " see the sea . " 
while he cleverly never lets us see jean enter the water that fateful day , leaving a number of possibilities - accident ? , suicide ? , escape ? 
- open , he definitely tips his hand towards a certain outcome . 
cinematography by antoine hiberli and jeanne lapoirie ( " water drops on burning rocks " ) glides around marie ( their 180 shot as she initially searches the ocean's horizon for a sign of jean conveys her panic ) or captures rampling's exotic face in mood divining closeup . 
in an inventive fantasy scene , marie imagines jean's hands massaging her feet while in a state of auto-arousal . 
his two hands become four , then more combined with her own , becoming almost a one person orgy and recalling roman polanski's " repulsion . " 
original music by philippe rombi quietly adds to the overall melancholy . 
 " under the sand " is a unique portrait of loss . 
it would make an fascinating double bill with liv ullmann's " faithless " from earlier this year , another character study of a woman facing loss for different reasons . 
is it just me , or have disney films gradually lost their appeal ? 
i was almost stunned by the quality of " who framed roger rabbit ? " , a fun , unique look at a world where cartoons and people lived together . 
 " the little mermaid " harkened back to , and perhaps surpassed , the classic disney animations from the first half of the century . 
however , the endless stream of " the little mermaid " wanna-be's is getting to me . 
you know the spiel : a lame plot recycled from some well-known story , colorful , almost psychedelic animation , the lead character who learns a valuable moral lesson , the comedic sidekick/sidekicks , the seemingly unattainable love interest , a few catchy songs , a few in-jokes for adults , and the occasional out of place warner-brothers-coyote-fall-off-the-cliff type joke . 
it's a formula , and like any formula , it gets tiresome . 
that's why i'm delighted to hear that disney recently picked up the international distribution rights to the works of ghibli , a japanese cartoon studio . 
from what i've seen of their movies ( " kiki's delivery service " and the already english-dubbed and american- distributed " my neighbor totoro " ) , foreign audiences are in for a treat . 
these movies , particularly " kiki's delivery service , " are wonderfully original and entertaining . 
 " kiki's delivery service " starts with an unusual premise : kiki , upon hearing forecasts of clear skies , decides it is time for her to leave home . 
this is unusual because kiki isn't a college student or a young adult making her start on the world , but a thirteen year old girl eager to begin her training as a witch . 
her mother is also a witch , and as thirteen is the obligatory age for such training , her parents treat her leaving understandingly and put up only token resistance . 
just the idea of a witch heroine may scare away some audiences , but no mention is made of the occult , and the subject is dealt with harmlessly throughout the movie : kiki's mother acts as a village doctor , and kiki is able to do no more than fly on a broom . 
kiki must choose a city to move to , and what she chooses is the co-star of the movie : a german seaport town , far removed from the country life she has been used to . 
initially lost in the impersonal hugeness of her surrounding , she's discouraged , and unable to support herself though her rudimentary skills as a witch . 
on the verge of leaving for a new town , she uses her power of flight to deliver a pacifier to a baby who dropped it . 
the favor eventually blossoms into her working as a courier , a one-persons delivery service . 
this is where the movie becomes shockingly good . 
kiki's job is a catalyst for her realizing the beauty of the city and the world around her . 
the townspeople she is put in contact possess an inner worth that doesn't seem forced or artificial , but merely derived from looking at ordinary people in a different light . 
they're three- dimensional , impossible to quickly evaluate , possessing of faults , and understandably reserving in kindness towards a strange girl . 
however , each one has something about them , some interest or trait , that makes them interesting and unique . 
the personal beauty of the citizens is complimented by the beauty of the surroundings : the seaport town genuinely looks impressive , capturing the european charm of a medieval city adapted to the more modern needs of the 1950's . 
this beauty is beauty with depth ; for every detail left in , dozens are only hinted at . 
i could probably go on all day , but i won't ; suffice it to say that many of these minor details could have been the highlight of the movie . 
some of my favorites are kiki's relationship with the baker's husband : although he's quiet , never shown speaking to kiki throughout the movie , and he initially scares her , his kindness wins her friendship . 
in the garage of a deliveree's house can be found a vintage model t . two old ladies have a relationship evolving from master-servant to friend-friend . 
such details gives the impression that the beauty shown in the movie is only the tip of the iceberg . 
added on top of this is a lesson on the importance of self-worth . 
kiki initially seems to derive much of her self-worth from the beauty of her surroundings and the people around her , but an encounter with a rude girl crashes down her bewonderment , making her question the importance of such beauty . 
this causes kiki to lose faith in herself . 
however , kiki comes to realize not only the beauty of her surroundings , but the innate beauty inside her . 
seeing kiki regain faith in herself is marvelous , and the principal device used to do it is so sublime that i don't even want to hint at it . 
the ending of the movie has a subtle charm combined with a sense of awe and , ironically , the most disney-esque moment i've ever seen ; if you don't hold your breath in wonder you might want to get medical attention . 
the movie steers free of many of the disney conventions : there is no violence , however cartoonish , no song-and-dance number , and kiki's pet cat jiji is more a friend than a comedic sidekick , although jiji is given many funny lines and scenes . 
however , i would be surprised if disney doesn't give jiji more jokes , or at least the voice of some comedian . 
refreshingly enough , the moral lesson of the movie is not self-contradicted , a habit disney movies have gotten into . 
 " beauty and the beast " 's beautiful belle , for instance , learned that beauty was derived from a person's inside , and was then rewarded by having the beast turn into a handsome prince in snazzy clothing . 
kiki , on the other hand , learns to separate her wardrobe from her self-image , and nothing more is made of her early desires for better clothing than illustrating her increased maturity at the end of the film . 
another difference with disney movies is in the style of animation for " kiki's delivery service " : not as colorful and dynamic as disney animation can be , but with a greater attention to realism and detail , it fits the movie to a t . this is particularly true with scenes of kiki's flights . 
the extreme realism of the birds in flight near kiki is magnificent to behold , and helps these scenes capture the wonder of flight better than any other film i've ever seen . 
i'm not sure when or how this movie will be released in the united states . 
disney tentatively plans a theater release of " monoko hime " shortly following the summer '97 japanese release , and should start releasing the other ghibli films after that . 
i'd guess that some will be released on video and some will be theatrically released in peak seasons with no competing disney release . 
although the wait is unfortunate , it's good to know that it's being released at all , for " kiki's delivery service " is definitely a movie worthy of widespread promotion and release . 
watch this movie . 
along with " man bites dog , " and perhaps something by woody allen , this is the best movie i've ever seen . 
insane ( but inspired ) musical about alferd packer , the first man ever tried for cannibalism in america . 
as the story unfolds we learn what events led to packer ( trey parker ) supposedly killing and eating the five men who got lost while accompanying him through the mountains of colorado in search of gold . 
throughout , packer must contend with evil trappers bent on stealing his prized horse , a tribe of `ute' indians that doesn't seem quite on the mark , and a terrible winter storm that leads to the eventual cannibalism . 
parker obviously knows his musicals very well , because the viewer is also treated to some of the most maddeningly catchy songs to appear in a film ( he would accomplish this again in his post-cannibal ! 
musical motion picture , south park : bigger , longer , and uncut ) . 
apart from the inherent interest of seeing a pre- " south park " parker and stone in their first effort , cannibal ! 
also offers up some pretty decent laughs . 
the aforementioned `ute' indian tribe that packer's group encounters is a definite highlight , as are two rousing musical numbers about snowmen ( one of which ends on a comedically deadly note ) . 
stone's humphrey character steals the show , especially when complaining about the prospect of having to `eat butt' or revealing what's underneath his muff cap . 
jason mchugh's character of mr . miller is the stand out performance though , as he offers a hilarious dissenting voice to the proceedings . 
as i mentioned before , parker's songs are very catchy . 
you'll be hard pressed to get `it's a shpadoinkle day' out of your head once you've heard it ( incidentally , the braniff logo that appears at the end of every " south park " episode is scored with a few notes from this song ) . 
other songs you'll find yourself humming include `when i was on top of you' ( a love ballad ) , `the trapper's song' ( the villains leit motif ) , and `hang the bastard' ( the rousing finale ) . 
thankfully , none of these songs are quite as embarrassing to find yourself singing in public as south park : bigger , longer & uncut's songs are . 
released as a pick-up through troma studios , the film is available on videocassette and dvd . 
the videocassette includes an intro by the beautiful jane jensen and an interview segment with lloyd kaufman , discussing his admiration for parker and stone and the fact that they had been hired for a zucker brothers film ( which turned out to be the hilarious baseketball ) . 
there are also multiple trailers for upcoming troma films . 
as for the dvd . . . 
well , that's a different story . 
probably one of the best dvd packages of the year ( and potentially of all time ) , cannibal ! 
the musical ! 
the dvd is a massive achievement . 
presented in 1 . 33 : 1 ( full frame ) only , the disc has the usual troma inclusions : the tour of troma , the troma intelligence test 2 , trailers for upcoming releases , but where the disc truly shines is in its cannibal ! 
specific extras . 
the first thing i must note is , the transfer is about as beautiful as any i've ever seen on any disc . 
the picture is crisp , clear , and free from any noticeable artifacts . 
add to that one of the funniest commentary tracks i have ever heard , featuring trey parker , matt stone , jason mchugh , dian bachar , and andy kemler getting drunker and drunker as the track continues and you still haven't scratched the surface of the extras . 
there's also behind the scenes footage of the shooting of the film , a clip with trey , matt , and lemmy ( of the band motorhead ) from the film terror firmer , an index for easy location of all of the songs in the film , and finally , an index of all the songs as performed by the cast of a stage production of cannibal ! . 
it's good to see this film finally get the treatment it deserves . 
kudos to the entire production staff at troma and aix for making one of the most entertaining dvds i have seen in a very long time . 
allen , star of many a brian depalma movie in the early eighties , has a brief , throwaway part towards the end of " out of sight , " as the maid of a crooked financier . 
in keeping with her past performances , allen wears little more than a green velvet victoria's secret ensemble which begs the question , did they really need a costume designer for this ? 
 " out of sight " is not likely to secure ms . allen the kind of plaudits bestowed upon pam grier , who likewise returned from out of obscurity to appear in another recent elmore leonard adaptation , " jackie brown , " but it is intriguing to see her name kicking off the " also starring " credits given her limited screen time . 
the real stars of " out of sight " are george clooney ( " batman & robin " by way of " e . r . " ) and jennifer lopez ( " selena " ) , whose winning chemistry , coupled with steven soderbergh's freeze-frame directorial technique , help the film retain the charismatic charm of leonard's original work . 
with the success of " get shorty " three years ago , filmmakers have realized that adapting an elmore leonard novel can be an easier proposition than trying to dream up a storyline from scratch . 
in " out of sight , " clooney stars as jack foley , a career criminal who specializes in unarmed robbery--he just waltzes into banks and politely makes a withdrawal , claiming that his " partner " ( just another customer it so happens ) will shoot the manager if the teller doesn't comply . 
for all of jack's nice-guy charm though , he's not very lucky . 
his latest scam lands him in florida's glades correctional facility . 
federal marshal karen sisco ( lopez ) coincidentally arrives at the prison just as jack and his buddy ( ving rhames , typically appealing ) are breaking out . 
there's a brief struggle and jack bundles himself and karen into the trunk of the getaway car . 
it's in these cramped confines , pressed intimately together , that jack and karen start falling for one another . 
the mutual attraction continues as the couple on opposite sides of the law slip in and out of one another's grasp . 
karen follows jack to detroit , where he's about to pull off another heist , this time a cache of uncut diamonds from incarcerated businessman richard ripley ( played by a toupee-sporting albert brooks , almost unrecognizable in the prison scenes ) . 
it's during this final caper-gone-awry that allen makes her scant appearance . 
clooney's range as an actor is limited , but he has undeniable charm . 
lopez , too , is easy on the eyes , but she demonstrates more depth in her portrayal of karen , a tough yet tender professional . 
she dispenses with hit men as easily as she out-maneuvers sleazy pick-up artists in a bar . 
especially cute is a sequence in which karen fantasizes about jack in a motel bathtub . 
admirably supporting clooney and lopez are don cheadle as fellow felon maurice 'snoopy' miller , steve zahn as the perennially stoned glenn michaels , and dennis farina as karen's dad , who affectionately buys her a piece . 
add a couple of uncredited cameos from " jackie brown " cast members and " out of sight " proves to be a lot of fun . 
not as hip and clever as " shorty , " perhaps , or as complex and colorful as " brown , " but loads of fun nonetheless . 
synopsis : in phantom menace the galaxy is divided into power groups whose interests will inevitably collide in later sequels . 
there is an overarching galactic united nations-type organization called the senate presided by a weak chancellor . 
within the senate two camps are at odds : a bickering , isolationist alliance called the republic and their aggressive rival the trade federation . 
preserving law and order are a council of jedi knights who are meanwhile searching for a prophesied chosen one of virgin birth . 
manipulating events behind the scenes is a dangerous , reemerging clan called the dark lords of sith , so shadowy and secretive that they comprise a " phantom " menace . 
jedi knight qui-gon jinn ( liam neeson ) and his apprentice obi-wan kenobi ( ewan mcgregor ) witness an invasion of teenage queen amidala's home planet naboo and befriend a gungan named jar jar ( ahmed best ) . 
on the desert planet of tatooine the two jedi , jar jar , and amidala ( natalie portman ) attend a lengthy drag race involving the young boy anakin skywalker ( jake lloyd ) . 
the five protagonists try to solicit help for freeing naboo by visiting the city planet of coruscant where a lot of debate and political maneuvering takes place . 
can they free amidala's helpless planet ? 
opinion : on tv last night i watched young , wannabe celebs pay $400 a ticket and come running out of theaters to bask in front of news cameras , gushing with testimonials of the phantom menace's greatness in exchange for a few seconds of being on national television . 
given this kind of media mania i wondered if phantom menace , the most anticipated movie of 1999 , could possibly live up to the extraordinary hype that preceded it . 
does phantom menace match the exaggerated hype ? 
director george lucas answers , " it's only a movie . " 
to me , any movie with russian-sounding accents for bad guys , jamaican accents for good guys , and middle eastern-sounding accents for seedy gamblers accents can be expected to be more tongue in cheek than profound . 
visually , star wars : episode i --the phantom menace ( 1999 ) is a kid show where parents can take their young ones to marvel at child-friendly cgi characters and wondrous backdrops even if the character dialogue ( mostly geopolitics ) is beyond the level of children . 
it is left to parents to patiently explain the conversation : droid origins , family lineage , the definitions of terms like blockade , appeasement , federation , alliance , symbiosis , satellite-controlled robots et cetera . 
at least this much is clear : there's plenty of eye candy , and in the last few minutes it's good guys and joe camel lookalikes versus a caped , horned red devil character and his mechanical hordes . 
weaknesses : weaknesses lie in the writing and in the performance . 
at first it seems like the film is to be an invasion story , but then phantom takes an hour-long detour to cover one chariot race before returning to the invasion theme . 
this dilutes the central story . 
additionally , smaller scenes seem written self consciously , as if they were added more to fill us in on extraneous background information for other movies rather than form an integral part of the present movie . 
veteran actors liam neeson and ewan mcgregor noticeably outperform the other acting leads . 
better ensemble chemistry between the five leads and background information that is central to a tight story line could have made have given phantom stronger performances and storytelling punch . 
strengths : on the bright side phantom menace as a big-budget production is far ahead of the competition in terms of making whimsical creatures , worlds and vehicles appear real . 
the film boasts sophisticated , top-of-the-line visuals and quality exotic costumes , a musical score entertaining enough to stand alone , and three worthwhile sequences in the second half . 
bottom line ? 
seeing the film is entertaining and informative , like a visual theme park with star wars filler information serving as dialogue between impressive money shots . 
we are bound to be completely inundated by star wars publicity , music and tie-ins for the next few months . 
at one point during brian de palma's crime epic scarface , the radiant michelle pfeiffer turns to a ranting al pacino and pops a question that the audience has no doubt been wanting to ask for themselves : " can't you stop saying 'fuck' all the time ? " 
fucking good question , that . 
it may not be an honour that instills the filmmakers with pride , but as far as i can tell oliver stone's script contains the said expletitive more times than any other film in cinema history . 
yet it would be a shame if bad language is all de palma's scarface is remembered for , because this is a damn fine gangstar flick . 
the overall structure is similar to howard hawks' 1932 original , but this time the scene has switched to miami , florida and our anti-hero's chosen vice is cocaine traffiking . 
pacino , sporting a thick cuban accent , gives one the best performances of his career ( golden globe nominated ) as tony montana , a cuban refugee with a criminal past who flees castro and comes to america to live the american dream . 
and live it out he does , with lashings of violence , abuse , murder and the funny white powder . 
from his earliest jobs as a drug runner for various middlemen , tony montana makes it clear to everyone he meets that he's not a man to be fucked ( sorry ) . 
soon he's the king of the cocaine heap , but his hot head and an increasingly out of control drug addiction prove his undoing . 
 " never do your own stash " , warns one character early in the film . 
as sure as night follows day , the emperor of miami eventually falls . 
writer oliver stone and director brian de palma make an explosive combination here . 
stone's script offers solid storytelling and some fine character development . 
montana is fascinating ; uneducated but calculating , a straight shooter who speaks from the heart ; an ambitious , violent man yet one with a conscience . 
a man fiercely protective of his beautiful 20 year old sister , not wanting her to be sucked into the glitzy , dangerous world which he inhabits . 
pacino is dynamite , taking to the role with a brooding , bristling energy which in his more recent films has often degenerated into just simple overracting . 
pfeiffer also registers strongly as the gangstar mole with no inner life . 
only once does tony express real affection for her and his desire to have children , and even then you sense all he really wants is a regular screw and a beautiful object to show off to his friends , and she's happy to oblige . 
this isn't as meaty a role for pfieffer as sharon stone's was in casino , but its an effective one nonetheless and she aquits herself well . 
as director , de palma sets up a number of dramatic scenes with his typical stylistic brauva . 
the escalating tension he creates in various mob situations - a drug deal gone wrong , an assination attempt - is often thrilling , and in this respect he is every bit the equal of scorese and coppola . 
where he differs from , say , coppola's godfather trilogy is in his overall treatment . 
coppola gives his crime sagas an operatic sweep , whereas in scarface de palma opts for a grittier feel . 
and it perfectly suits the material . 
the only major botch is giorgio moroder's mostly crap synthesier score . 
it's just not right , and unfortunately compromises the impact of some otherwise good scenes . 
as expected , scarface is very violent at times , but you shouldn't be watching gangster movies if that upsets you . 
at over two and a half hours in length it's a true epic , and if you're a fan of the genre you'll love f * * k-filled minute of it . 
for any groom on the verge of proposing marriage to his girlfriend , there are certain rules that he needs to follow . 
firstly , fill her life with happiness and romance during the courtship . 
secondly , buy her a beautiful ring that glitters as brightly as her eyes . 
thirdly , find the perfect moment and location to propose . 
finally , the groom-wannabe should probably get her parent's blessing . 
of these four , the last one can be a nightmare . 
meeting parents is a rite of passage , fraught with unexpected questions , bouts of nervousness , the reality of being disliked , and the inability to make a positive impression . 
if you're lucky , things will go smoothly . 
but , if you're greg focker ( ben stiller ) , everything will go wrong . 
and with a name like that , how could it not ? 
when greg first meets his fianc ? e's father , jack byrnes ( the grimacing robert deniro ) , greg immediately feels overwhelmed and is put on the defensive . 
when he tells jack that he's a male nurse , the incorrigible dad shoots back , " not many men in your profession , huh , greg ? " 
it's definitely not a good start . 
but greg is determined to win him over , and it's this desire that fuels the movie . 
he first takes small steps such as agreeing to say grace before dinner . 
it doesn't matter that he's jewish . 
if daddy byrnes asks him to say grace , then that's what he's going to gamely do . 
 " oh god . . . you're 
such a good god " , he moons . 
his discomfort at trying to force out a simple prayer will make you chuckle , but when jack gives him the " deniro squint " ( that familiar , unsettling gaze that gives deniro that aura of invincibility ) , it's pretty hard not to grin . 
things get progressively worse for greg . 
and that's too bad because he's a genuinely likable guy with a romantic heart . 
eventually , he begins to try so hard that he starts to mess everything up , committing a host of gaffes that embarrass , humiliate or injure other people . 
it's a never-ending ordeal of missteps , miscues , and mistakes . 
he buys some champagne , but uncorking the bottle leads to disastrous circumstances . 
he tries to find jack's missing cat . 
but his method of solving the problem leads only to more trouble . 
and there are several other episodes , each one trumping the next in outrageousness . 
the more our well-meaning beau screwed up , the more the audience groaned in sympathy . 
we liked greg . 
and , we liked this movie . 
 " meet the parents " is a farcical comedy that certainly has its moments . 
just sit back and watch greg get into trouble . 
no matter what the situation , whether its playing a harmless game of water volleyball or sneaking a smoke on the roof of the house , things will horribly go wrong . 
we laugh at greg's expense , but love often makes a person do dumb things , and ben stiller has the knack of playing the romantic fool . 
deniro is also affable , tough on the outside yet sentimental on the inside . 
their tug-of-war is often funny , the slapstick is elaborate , and there are several topical throwaway gags ( mostly targeted at the airline industry ) to make this film an amusing yet smart lampoon about future in-laws from hell . 
i like movies with albert brooks , and i really like movies directed and written by albert brooks . 
lost in america and defending your life are two of my favorite comedies . 
his humor is of a kind that is not very prevalent in movies today , inundated as we are with films which revel in their aim toward the lowest common denominator . 
you will rarely see any slapstick in an albert brooks film , while the dialog will not be as oppressive as in some of the independent " talk films " which are finding their way into theaters . 
the situations in which his characters find themselves are ones we can often identify with , but even if we can't , brooks has the talent to make them comfortable , and therefore we laugh . 
teenagers and jim carrey fans probably won't find an albert brooks movie very funny , but people who look for more than what we could find on television probably will . 
put simply , brooks' comedy is intelligent . 
mother is albert brooks' latest film , and it does not disappoint . 
brooks plays john henderson , a middle-aged science fiction writer just coming off his second divorce . 
he makes an attempt at dating , but fails miserably . 
he then has dinner with his brother jeff ( rob morrow ) , a successful sports agent who seems to live the ideal life . 
jeff has a good job , a loving family , and most of all , a warm relationship with their mother beatrice ( debbie reynolds ) . 
after dinner , john witnesses a telephone conversation between jeff and beatrice , and is at the same time amazed and sickened by how hunky-dory the dialog is . 
in comparison , beatrice always hints at a fault in john and his career every time she talks with him , and john gives it right back to her . 
at the end of one of their conversations where beatrice has just picked apart john's life , she says , " i love you , " and john replies with , " i know you think you do . " 
the thing is , beatrice is not overt with her criticisms , but instead gives them in that mothering way which is tantamount to nit-picking and guilt loading . 
it's the kind that goes something like , " yes , dear , i think you do that wonderfully , but . . . . " 
it seems as though nothing he does makes her happy . 
there's always the big but . 
john believes that his mother is somehow connected to his failed relationships with women , either because of his flawed self-esteem caused by his need for validation , or perhaps because he tends to unconsciously seek out women who remind him of his mother in an oedipal manner . 
he comes to the conclusion that since his problems are rooted in his boyhood home , he should move back in with his mother for a while just to see what kinds of feelings come out , and by that be able to sort out why his life is the way it is . 
 " a great experiment " , he calls it . 
brooks' own brand of humor really shines in this film , especially in the interaction john has with his mother . 
there's a scene where john has just arrived at his mother's house , and after having driven from los angeles to sausalito , and having explained to his mother about the " great experiment " , beatrice asks , " now explain to me again why you don't want to stay at a hotel . " 
she still doesn't get it , and it is absolutely hilarious . 
in the same scene , we get little glances at the life his mother leads when she tries to feed him food that is no longer fresh . 
she apparently buys in great quantities and refrigerates it until the lettuce is wilted and the sherbet is iced over . 
when john points out the ice on the sherbet , beatrice tells him not to worry about the protective glaze . 
 " you've named the ice ? " 
asks john . 
he's also surprised at the variety of items beatrice keeps in the refrigerator , such as a twenty-pound block of cheese . 
 " the freezer was a good invention , " says john , " but it's not supposed to be used for everything . 
that's why it's smaller than the refrigerator . " 
it's something most of us find strangely familiar . 
brooks is also a master at employing the non sequitur . 
for example , in defending your life , his and meryl streep's characters are in a comedy club having a discussion . 
when they're finished and walk out , brooks cuts to the comic on stage who is just at the point of delivering his punch line , " and so the moral is , if you have to fart , go outside ! " 
you don't know what the joke was because you couldn't hear him during the entire scene , but i must have laughed for the next five minutes , it seemed so out of context . 
in this film , brooks uses the same trick a couple of times to open or close a scene . 
i don't want to give them away , but suffice it to say they work just as well as they have in the past . 
john's purpose for staying with his mother is to learn , and we as the audience learn right along with him . 
his mother is not the fascinating type to begin with , but as john spends more time with her , we learn things about her personality and her lifestyle that give her depth . 
watching the character of beatrice unfold is every bit as enjoyable as the humor that accompanies it each step of the way . 
on screen , brooks does an excellent job playing this kind of character : you get the feeling he often believes he is the only sane person in an insane world . 
in a way , he's very much like yosarian of catch-22 , expect with something of an attitude . 
casting debbie reynolds as beatrice is perfect . 
she assumes the part with ease , even moving and speaking a little slowly , and is just so adorable it's hard to get mad at her character . 
this only helps the audience to share the frustration john feels when dealing with her . 
as his first choice , brooks originally wanted to lure nancy reagan out from her acting retirement to play beatrice , but the former actress and first lady could not leave her husband , who was beginning to show symptoms of alzheimer's disease . 
that may be just as well , since reynolds lends a softness to the character which enhances it immensely . 
rob morrow also does a good job at playing the younger brother who has always been mother's favorite and , for all his success in his job and family , is slowly exposed as a mama's boy . 
the only things that hold this movie back from being better are a couple of plot holes . 
a solid connection is not really made between john's troubles and his reasons for living with his mother . 
additionally , the end results of the experiment do not necessarily jibe with the stated goals , and although this may have been sloppy screenwriting , how can you be mad at the guy who also wrote this ? : 
beatrice : you must think i'm some kind of moron . 
john : no , i think your someone who thinks i'm a moron . 
beatrice : well , it takes one to know one . 
 ( note : there are spoilers regarding the film's climax ; the election , of course ) 
we see matthew broderick , a man torn to a primal state ; he's been unfaithful to his wife , lied to and manipulated his students , and by the same token they've demeaned his masculinity , his self-respect , his desperate attempt at changing the world . 
and yet , he equates the cause of his pain , his torment , with tracy flick ( reese witherspoon ) . 
no matter how many students have come and gone , and disappointed him as an educator , she's the real threat . 
about to give in , and divulge that she's won by only a lone vote , broderick's mccalister turns in defeat , sees tracy's euphoric celebration in the outside corridor and says , 'no' . 
the fact that he simultaneously lusts after her ideologically further illustrates that freudian foundation of entitlement which all men , no matter how obscure , have in their relationships ; a traditional expectation of success , to usurp and surpass women as a proverbial industry . 
she can't go higher than him . 
he won't allow it . 
and what's amazing about " election " is that every word of that criticism is drawn from a rather opaque metaphor . 
early in the film we learn that tracy was romantically , and then sexually , involved with a now departed teacher . 
it's like payne and taylor , his co-screenwriter , have taken tracy , a girl desperate for friendship , loyalty , and almost perversely drawn the mythological pattern of kids who were so utterly rejected by their peers , that they found sitting at the teachers' lunch table more fitting , to an unlikely extreme with her as the protagonist . 
and it's amazing the compassion that we have ; it seems so real to us , and not merely because it's happened before , splashed all over the front pages , but , because of the all around " nice " persona of these people , we easily dismiss the truly wayward deeds of the characters . 
it's with mandy barnett's " if you'll be the teacher " playing winsomely over the closing credits that payne skewers the tenets of his detractors most ; a final , viscous injection of bittersweet irony . 
sexuality , though , is not the only basis for payne's satire , or its success . 
it also makes a telling point about politics , friendship , and class boundaries . 
satire is required ( or ought to be , anyway ) to take itself seriously , or act so , while the audience does not . 
it's a fine line to straddle , but some films ignore it altogether ( " drop dead gorgeous " leaps infuriatingly to mind ) . 
payne and taylor hit the right chord ; their characters are real people : neither is perfect , but rather both of the leads are flawed , misguided individuals who retain , somewhat , noble intentions at heart . 
we sympathize with them , but still , as a satire , their idiosyncratic behavior , and their wrongdoing , is taken to an extreme for the audience to knowingly chuckle , but also reflect and meditate , about . 
minus half a point , though , for payne admitting not to having seen " ferris bueller's day off " . 
whatever . 
martin scorsese's films used to intimidate me . 
because of his reputation , i felt obligated to appreciate them as deep film art rather than as great flicks . 
as much as i enjoyed them , i usually felt like i missed something . 
i learned from scorsese's casino that whatever techniques he uses are merely there to enhance the story . 
no mystical interpretation is required to appreciate his movies . 
for example , in casino he uses subtitles when robert deniro and joe pesci are using code words with each other . 
there was no meaning more exotic than that subtitles were the most succinct way for him to tell the audience what was really going on . 
or toward the end , when he uses three quick dissolves to compress a scene of a car backing away from a building . 
again , the simple , mundane explanation is that it helped the pacing . 
i don't mean to say that his techniques are not creative or good-looking . 
but he simply uses the best tool for the job . 
it shouldn't have surprised me , then , that kundun , a film about a mystical religion , actually turned out to be quite straightforward . 
the movie follows the life of the 14th dalai lama , the spiritual and political leader of tibet . 
the movie's title is another name for the dalai lama which means " ocean of wisdom . " 
his story is told in strict chronological order and there are only a few cinematic visions to embellish the literal story . 
 ( one of which makes an interesting statement : pay attention to the film's opening shot and watch where it is repeated . ) 
we first glimpse the dalai lama when he is two years old . 
his curiosity and self-assuredness capture the attention of a monk wandering in search of the new lama . 
a test is arranged to see if this boy really is the reincarnation of the 13 dalai lamas who have gone before . 
several items belonging to the previous dalai lama are laid before the boy alongside some other items . 
the child is asked if he recognizes any of the items as his own . 
the boy picks correctly , proving that he is the new , and the old , dalai lama . 
scorsese and long-time editor thelma schoonmaker were kind enough to allow the possibility that the child was taking his cues from the monk . 
before selecting an item , he would look at the monk , perhaps for some sort of confirmation . 
sometimes he picked right the first time , and sometimes he made a second choice . 
either way , whether through reincarnation or quick human perception , the tibetans were assured of choosing a boy who could be a wise , perceptive leader . 
>from this point on , the boy is raised as the reincarnation of the lama's spirit and the future leader of a nation . 
it is a great weight to put on the mind of a child . 
in the u . s . it might be grounds for a call to social services . 
but the young lama accepts his destiny without any apparent emotional damage . 
neither the great power nor the awesome responsibility keeps him from becoming a genuinely likeable , well-rounded person . 
certain patterns take shape over the years . 
for example , the dalai lama is fascinated by technology . 
radios , clocks , and telescopes are some of his favorite toys . 
when he is old enough to accept his leadership , he makes plans to modernize isolated tibet . 
he also has a soft spot for creatures who are suffering or in pain , including herd animals . 
it's nearly a running gag that he will buy sheep to keep them from being herded to slaughter . 
but the most ominous constant throughout his life is the presence and threat of tibet's gigantic neighbor , china . 
tibet and its leaders prove correct in fearing china , as , first the propaganda , then the political pressure , and finally the armies , come across their common border . 
the chinese invasion is so successful that the lama's life is in danger if he stays . 
the movie ends when , after much agonizing , the dalai lama leaves tibet for india . 
the story doesn't lead up to a cinematic climax as strongly as most feature films do . 
it just doesn't fit that mold . 
if it were forced into such a shape it would have been a completely different movie ( perhaps more like seven years in tibet , which is good in its own right ) . 
the pacing of kundun is more calm and level than that . 
the structure of the film is made to fit the characters and events , not vice-versa . 
perhaps because the pace is slower , we have more time to notice the beautiful art , vestments , and architecture of tibet . 
a mandala , ( tibetan sand painting ) with beautiful , vibrant colors is shown throughout the movie . 
the robes and hats of state are bright red and gold . 
the bricks are a rich reddish brown , not unlike the skin tone of the tibetans . 
even the touchstone pictures logo before the movie ( which is usually light blue ) is the red and gold of tibet . 
philip glass composed the music for kundun , and he was the perfect choice . 
for those who don't know of glass , his music is like a tibetan mandala . 
his building blocks are lots of small notes , tiny grains of music , which are first grouped , then repeated in patterns . 
these patterns create interesting textures which are themselves part of a larger composition . 
people won't be flocking to kundun for it's great ending , or talking about its outstanding plot , but it does have a lot to offer : an interesting lifetime , exotic sights , rich cinematography , and innovative music . 
it gives interesting insight into tibetan buddhism and takes a warm look at the dalai lama as a person . 
on top of it all is the cinematic mastery of martin scorsese , who gives the film a strong , beautiful , consistent look . 
robert redford's a river runs through it is not a film i watch often . 
it is a masterpiece -- one of the better films of recent years . 
until 1994 , it was my second favorite film of all time . 
the acting and direction is top-notch -- never sappy , always touching . 
a friend of mine once reported that he avoided it because " i was afraid it would just be really politically correct , and tick me off . " 
all i could do was tell him to go in unbiased , and enjoy . 
it is one of the few movies that has completely reduced me to tears . 
but certain memories should not often be rereleased -- in the last few shots , you have to cry . 
upon my first viewing i left bawling . 
it is not flawless -- but it is so very good , that you can't help but be effected . 
the opening is dangerously nolstalgic and sentimental -- watching these shots of people who have been dead so long , gives you a feeling of perspective and history observation that you will find in very few other films . 
martin scorsese once described the movies as a dream state -- like taking dope , and immersing yourself in an alternative world . 
that is what a river runs through it does . 
it exploits the unique power of cinema to engross you and help to forget your real self . 
both times i've seen it , its been hard ( again to quote scorsese ) waking up . 
but the dream is lovely . 
richard gere is not one of my favorite actors . 
however , i like courtroom dramas , and this film looked good enough to take a chance on . 
i wasn't disappointed . 
it wasn't a great film , but it was interesting , and took several unexpected turns . 
one thing : what's with the title ? 
not only is it extremely forgettable , it doesn't really have much to do with the film , as far as i could determine . 
in the long run , it will probably hurt the film , as people won't be able to think of or remember it . 
martin vail ( richard gere ) is a grandiose defense attorney . 
he loves the money and the fame that go along with defending ( successfully ) rich scum , such as mafia men and drug-dealers . 
once he sees that the accused killer of a prominent chicago archbishop is a baby-faced alter boy , he wants in on the case , presumably for the press he'll get . 
we soon find out that the prosecutor assigned is a former lover , janet venable ( laura linney ) . 
vail himself is a former prosecutor , and quit because of tensions between himself and the district attorney , played very well by john mahoney ( frasier's father on the tv series ) . 
there is an underlying theme of dichotomy in the movie : people have public faces , and private faces . 
we see this in the murdered archbishop , in the accused , and , most strongly , defense attorney martin vail . 
richard gere does a fairly good job . 
at first , he appears to be a money- and attention-grabbing lawyer , with no consideration of the truth . 
but we see another side , as he becomes a seeker of justice , and comes to believe in his client . 
alfre woodard , as the judge , is capable , though somewhat wasted in a standard role . 
laura linney also does journeyman work ; nothing spectacular , but acceptable . 
her relationship with vail is believable ; their verbal fencing adds to the film . 
the actor who playes vail's investigator ( unfortunately , i don't remember his name ) is quite good . 
his female assistant ( she looked very familiar , but i can't remember where i've seen her ) was also capable , but unspectacular . 
the best performance in the film was by edward norton . 
he was excellent , as the timid altar-boy turned alleged " butcher boy of st . mike's " . 
i was impressed by the depth of the plot ; there are red-herrings , and dead-ends , that in a lesser film would lead to a predictable ending . 
i liked the plot twists the film took , and most of the supporting characters , thus i give primal fear a respectable b+ rating . 
 " when you get out of jail , you can kill him . " 
starring ashley judd , tommy lee jones , bruce greenwood . 
rated r . 
double jeopardy is a lurid , prepostrous thriller that's also one of the year's most enjoyable . 
it's an uncompromisingly brutal , cheerfully anarchic , hyperactive actioner that has a mission and never diverts from it . 
there is not a moment here when the events on screen don't have a direct bearing on the plot ; once the film gets going it never stops . 
it has been branded as the female version of the fugitive and that's probably a correct assessment of the plot , but the film itself has little in common with the 1993 andrew davis/harrison ford collaboration besides the presence of star tommy lee jones . 
not even bothering with character introduction , director bruce beresford floors the gas pedal from the get-go and never finds the brake . 
we meet , rather hastily , libby and nick parsons ( ashley judd and bruce greenwood , respectively ) a seemingly happy married couple , with a son matty , age 4 . they go out on a sailboat one night , and after a period of some rockin' sex , they go to sleep . 
libby hears a strange noise , wakes up and discovers that she is covered with blood . 
she follows a red trail to the upper deck , where she finds a knife and , out of astonishment , picks it up . 
at that convenient moment , the coast guard shows up and libby is arrested . 
her lawyer , a friend , puts up a defense in court , but though we know she is innocent , the evidence against her is too compelling . 
her friend adopts her son and she goes to prison . 
once in prison , she makes a phone call to her friend . 
her friend gives her son the phone . 
nick walks in the room . 
little matty screams " daddy ! " 
the phone goes dead . 
libby realizes that the man she is imprisoned for killing isn't even dead . 
she gets some advice from a prisoner/former lawyer , who tells her that since the state already convicted her of killing her husband , they can't convict her of the same crime again , meaning that when she gets paroled she can kill him and they can't touch her . 
after a weirdly short amount of time , she gets out of parole . 
she is sent to live at a house with other recent parolees , under the command of parole officer travis lehman ( tommy lee jones ) . 
she sets out on a mission to find her husband and get her son back , which turns out to be much more difficult than anticipated . 
she winds up tracking him all the way to new orleans where she finds out that he has long killed his girlfriend and her son's " adopter " . 
double jeopardy is based on an assumption that is legally false . 
the law stating that nobody can be convicted twice for the same crime assumes that it is the same crime : same time , same place , same circumstances . 
it's not like it matters . 
this is a rollickingly good thriller ; intense , exciting , fast and furious . 
it's silly alright , but this is the kind of film you just don't question . 
in some films , plausibility is everything . 
double jeopardy , however , is not concerned with making sense : its sole purpose is to entertain , and it does . 
judd helps the film tremendously in a difficult role . 
this is her breakout box-office performance , and she is terrific . 
she brings some emotion to what could have been a one-dimensional role , giving the movie a little soul to go along with its effective chase scenes and action set pieces . 
tommy lee jones basically just reprises the role for which he won an oscar in the fugitive , but the movie makes good use of his stone-faced wit . 
thankfully , too , double jeopardy refrains from developing a romance between libby and travis ; a subplot which doubtlessly would have interfered with the film's story . 
this is one of those movies where cops are the bad guys , and i took a sort of sick pleasure in that . 
the sheer anarchy of the proceedings was nothing short of wonderful , as ashley judd kicks the crap out of every authority figure in the book . 
after all the idealistic hollywood features featuring hero cops , deft fbi agents and the virtues of the american legal system , it's great to see a movie that doesn't so much demonstrate their fallacy as it delights in their failure . 
double jeopardy is really good , but it isn't the kind of good that is remembered or recognized with awards . 
it's one of those movies better viewed with the brain turned off , otherwise , your brain will be busy ruining your experience . 
this is a thriller that isn't concerned with being smart or plausible . 
instead it diverts all attention to the action , which , this year , is second to none . 
let's say you live at the end of an airport runway . 
large jetliners continuously pass over your house , rattling your windows and allowing few moments of peace . 
let's say the ground beneath your feet is also contaminated with toxic substances , and high voltage power lines run across steel towers only yards from your home . 
now let's say an airport conglomerate wants to buy your property in order to lengthen the runway , and offers you more than it's worth . 
wouldn't you jump in the air and have your bags packed before you landed ? 
of course you would . 
but what if this bit of land was your idea of paradise , and the house your castle ? 
that's what they are to darryl kerrigan ( michael caton ) , and although he's happy that a multi-national corporation would like to buy his home , sorry , it's not for sale . 
unfortunately , the corporation wields quite a bit of influence over the australian government , which serves darryl and his family with what amounts to an eviction notice . 
not about to take this lying down , darryl enlists the help of his inept attorney friend dennis denuto ( tiriel mora ) and makes a determined , albeit pathetic , attempt to fight back . 
the castle , an australian comedy by rob sitch , is perhaps one of the simplest movies i've seen in recent memory , yet also one of the funniest . 
in fact , it is this film's reliance on simplicity which makes it so successful . 
the good guys and the bad guys are clear , the humor is straightforward , and the storyline is as uncomplicated as it gets . 
it's the perfect setup for a relaxing , hilarious good time , and as much as i hate to admit it , i liked the fact that i didn't have to think all that much while watching this film . 
i just sat back and enjoyed myself . 
the situation is one we've seen before : regular joe fights back against the government , or big business , or whatever . 
what makes this film different is its characters . 
darryl thinks he's got the best life in the world - he tells his family that living next to power lines is a constant reminder of the success of mankind , he asks who would ever want to go out and eat in a fancy restaurant when he's got the meat loaf feast prepared by his wife sal ( anne tenny ) , and he swells with pride when his son dale ( stephen curry ) digs a hole in the yard . 
steve kerrigan ( anthony simcoe ) constantly combs the buy and sell ads looking for " investments " like jousting sticks and overhead projectors , while wayne kerrigan is in jail , as a result of dennis denuto's incompetent courtroom maneuvers . 
the great thing about the kerrigans is that they aren't so stupid that they get annoying . 
they're just a group of simpletons whose naive nature is perfectly harmless and even endearing . 
we look upon them with a little bit of pity , but a whole lot of affection . 
screenwriters sitch , santo cilauro , tom gleisner , and jane kennedy pit this lovable bunch of unlikely crusaders against a stoic court system and a condescending business conglomerate , further polarizing the extremes and deepening our feelings for the kerrigans . 
sympathy for their situation , the laughter they bring us , and the family's wonderful characterization , simple as it may be , leaves us with a degree of emotional investment that causes us to actually care about what happens to them . 
i suppose one might wonder how deep characterization can go when your characters are as inane as the kerrigans , but trust me , it works . 
i particularly noted that the writers did not have to use slapstick in order to get laughs . 
don't get me wrong - slapstick , when executed well , can be genius . 
it's just that too often , a film will resort to it's use as a shortcut to amusing the audience , not always successfully . 
instead , the jokes in the castle are all hinged upon the dialog uttered by these people who have no idea that they are totally skewed to the rest of the world . 
when they are by themselves , the are funny , and when they are with normal people , they are hilarious . 
one of the few problems i saw with this film was a detour taken about midway though . 
the kerrigans go out to a vacation spot for seemingly no reason other than to pack in a few more jokes and increase the film's running time . 
luckily , it's a funny little detour that , while slightly distracting from the film's main drive , is still quite enjoyable . 
with all the levity abound in the castle , the film still manages to take on a pretty heavy concept , that of the innate right of a citizen to keep his property , an issue which has been bandied about in courts across the civilized world with differing outcomes . 
i'm not certain the courtroom monologue near the end of the film would actually hold up in real life , but it brings to the forefront the essence of the constitution ( of australia ) and certainly sounds impressive at any rate . 
and , for that matter , it's more than i would have expected out of a light hearted film like this . 
in this good natured , pleasent and easy going comedy , bill murray ( ghostbusters , 1984 ) plays grumpy weatherman phil conners , who , every year , is sent to punxsutawney , p . a , to report on groundhog day . 
the groundhog day ceremony involves a groundhog being lifted out of a box , and if he dosen't see a shadow , it will be an early spring . 
phil really hates the ceremony , and not even his producer rita ( macdowell ) can change his mind . 
however , fate has a cruel trick for phil , and he starts re-living groundhog day over , and over , and over , until he gradually likes it , and rita falls in love with him . 
groundhog day is a well written , totatly unoffensive and funny comedy . 
the screenwriters , director ramis and danny rubin , have written a funny , warm , but never overly senitmental comedy . 
although the idea of a day repeating over and over may sound tedious , there are enough good jokes to hold the audiences attention throughout the whole film . 
ramis's direction also helps , and although he dosen't try any flash director tricks , the film is directed well enough , and the jokes are set up well . 
and the editing is also good , especially when it shows one part of the day over , and over again , such as when phil tries to have the perfect night with rita . 
the performances are also excellent . 
bill murray is great fun , and his transistion from cynical to happy is smooth , and delivers his lines in his usual smary style . 
andie macdowell is good as rita , although sometimes she is just a little bit too sweet in some parts of the film . 
there is chemistry between the two leads , thankfully , otherwise the whole film would probably fall part . 
chris elliot , as the cameraman larry , is also funny , although you have to like his goofy style , otherwise you are really going to hate him throughout this film , and it will lower your enjoyment of the film overall . 
the supporting cast aren't bad either , with stephen tobolowsky hillarous as phils old school mate ned ryanson , and even director ramis popping up as a neurologist . 
in fact , there is not one dud performance in this film , and even the groundhog gets a funny scene involving a car chase . 
overall , there is really nothing wrong with groundhog day at all . 
it almost seems perfect . 
however , the film can get a bit soppy sometimes , and some people may get irritated by the day repeating over , and over , and over , and over . 
also , there's not much of an music score , and the music there is is pretty bad . 
but these criticisms hardly affect the audiences enjoyment at all . 
overall , then , groundhog day is a funny , smart , and also has some room in there for some heart . 
an excellent comedy . 
overall rating= ( 
 " no man is an island , " one character quotes john donne in apt pupil , effectively summarizing the movie's themes . 
while hardly a great film , singer's ambitious adaptation of king's short story * is challenging nonetheless ; perhaps the most shocking aspect of this inclement psychological thriller is that a major studio got behind it . 
apt pupil is a bleak picture destined to be misunderstood by the masses . 
1984 . wonder-bred high school honours student todd bowden ( renfro ) conducts his own extracurricular investigation of kurt dussander , a nazi war criminal who fearfully fled berlin in the 1960s and was never heard from again . 
bowden suspects arthur denker ( mckellan ) , the lonely german senior citizen who lives nearby , is actually a pseudonymous dussander-much research and dusting for fingerprints proves young todd's theory . 
bowden strikes a deal with dussander : in exchange for not revealing his identity , dussander must satisfy bowden's intense curiosity by recounting the atrocities of the holocaust from the nazi point of view . 
the stories he hears keep todd up at night and haunt his daydreams , but like a bystander at a traffic accident , todd's desire for gory details overrides his repulsion . 
bowden revives in dussander feelings dormant since the end of wwii . 
marching in a mock uniform around his kitchen is wholly cathartic for dussander : it leads to his torture of a cat and the torment of his " student " , among other things . 
bowden , who has taken on very hateful qualities ( he kills birds and doodles swastikas on his notebook ) , engages the veteran in an endless game of one-upmanship . 
dussander stands to lose his freedom , and bowden his credibility-in effect , his post-secondary school future . 
all of this winds down to a fairly unpredictable ( and unsettling ) conclusion , one which requires leaps of faith from its audience yet is more satisfying than the source material's excessive climax . 
singer has yet to get keyser s ? ze out of his system . 
his the usual suspects and apt pupil are both about evil masquerading as innocence ( verbal's tics and todd's golden-boy reputation are plausible ruses ) ; they showcase morally bankrupt anti-heroes to whom telling the truth is not an option if they are to achieve their goals . 
apt pupil is a richer film than the usual suspects , a movie famous and popular partly because its plot machinations were not germane to the outcome-there was no way you could see the ending coming , as it was all a hoodwink , anyway . 
thankfully , singer has gotten most of the usual suspects' film-schoolish geek theatrics out of his system . 
some scenes in apt pupil feel overdirected and/or obvious ( the dream sequences were extraneous ) , but the majority of the film is subdued-and singer's handling of the violent scenes is boldly restrained for a film about a murderer and a murderer-in-training . 
mckellan's and renfro's performances contribute enormously to the overall success of the film ; while most people will focus on british stage vet mckellan's finely-tuned realization , i'd like to single out renfro's daring work . 
he isn't afraid to play someone largely unappealing and cold-hearted ; he strips his character of vanity , something many of his peers wouldn't do . 
 ( can you picture kieran culkin or jonathan taylor-thomas in the same role ? ) 
renfro was recently charged with possession of cocaine-i hope he doesn't continue down that path , because he has a big future in good movies waiting for him . 
as guidance counsellor edward french , " friend " schwimmer also deserves mention . 
he wants to be the parent to todd that todd's own well-to-do folks are not ( todd , like most modern kids-and only-children-has mom and dad wrapped around his pinky finger ) , and his sincerity makes the apt pupil's blackening-heart even more apparent . 
but one of the film's ultimate questions , are we born evil or do we learn evil ? , might be answered in french , whose motives are the slightest bit ambiguous . 
no man is an island , indeed-we all have the capacity to make the " right " or the " wrong " choices . 
schwimmer winningly plays one of a trio of fascinating characters who make the unconventional apt pupil laudible . 
-october , 1998 
 * the excellent collection king's stories called different seasons spawned not only apt pupil , but the shawshank redemption ( originally titled rita hayworth and the shawshank redemption ) and stand by me ( originally titled the body ) . 
i rented this movie with very high hopes . 
this movie got praise as one of the best films of 1998 , and unfortunately , was not as good as i hoped , but was still very intriguing and thought provoking . 
first of all , the casting for this film is great . 
tobey maguire and reese witherspoon are the future of hollywood . 
they play their roles as the parker brother and sister perfectly . 
with a plot as unbelievable as this film , you need chemistry and honest acting from your cast . 
tobey and reese ( bud and mary sue parker ) play their roles perfectly and display their characters with honesty and believability . 
william h . macy , an actor i have grown to love over the past year , turns in another great performance as the tv dad who is torn over his wife , a " colored " person and his friends , the " non-colored " ones . 
he also displays believability and must display a certain lack of chemistry with his wife . 
he does this perfectly and yet again shows why he should be one of the top actors in hollywood . 
joan allen is equally great as betty parker , the ideal tv mom . 
her character is the most ambitious . 
she is very na ? ve , and must display this well to make her character believable and she does just that . 
her lack of chemistry with macy , which the role calls for , and her developed chemistry with jeff daniels is terrific , and if daniels would have been as stellar as the rest of the cast , then this film would even been even better . 
as said before , jeff daniels gives a bad performance . 
his character displays the change going on throughout the town , yet he does not display it with enough conviction . 
his character is very confusing and he is not very believable . 
this film could have been elevated to a whole new level had daniels been able to give a better performance . 
the movie is very provocative . 
it challenges the issues of racism that existed in the past and that still exist today . 
i really was not expecting all of the elements they brought up , but they pulled them off with such flair that it was mind blowing . 
they demonstrate the racism issue without a hitch , but do it in a slow pace . 
the only major flaw in the film besides the performance by daniels is length . 
some films are not meant to be that long . 
pleasantville is one of those films . 
this film could have been so much better had they not moved so slowly to it . 
first , they are amazed by the implementation of color . 
then they want to have it . 
then they do not want to . 
then the war ensues between the colored and non-colored . 
this is all strung out over two hours , which was way too long . 
some movies need a lot of time . 
saving private ryan was a little bit under three hours long and i thought it could have used more time . 
this film is only two hours long , and seems much longer . 
length is everything in films . 
if you can nail down the perfect timing and pace , you can win half the battle . 
pleasantville can move at a good pace at times , but it is not consistent enough . 
overall , pleasantville is a very pleasant and provocative departure from the predictability of most films these days . 
i went in expecting a light-hearted film about change . 
i left learning an important lesson about racism and the way things change . 
luckily , pleasantville teaches this lesson in such a way to make it appeal to all audiences . 
only if it could have done in a shorter amount of time . 
few films in 1999 have divided the critical consensus as sharply as alan parker's adaptation of frank mccourt's memoir angela's ashes . 
many dismissed it as an humorless , sentimentalized , uninteresting version of the hugely popular novel ; others hailed it as a heartfelt , sincere portrait of the human spirit . 
i'm somewhere in between , leaning strongly towards the latter . 
it's certainly well-made and it never becomes tedious like some literary adaptations have a tendency to be . 
but i have a feeling that parker filled the movie with pseudo-lyrical shots of rain falling on the homely streets of ireland just so it can have the two-and-a-half hour running time that screams " i'm important ! " 
mccourt's book of the same name was about him and his family moving from the us to ireland in the early 1900's , a time when most people were desperately trying to get into the us . 
as he comments , " we were the only irishfolk to say goodbye to the statue of liberty . " 
in ireland , frank ( played by joe breen as a small child ) , his 3 brothers , his mother angela ( emily watson ) and his father malachy ( robert carlyle ) get financial help from angela's mother , a stereotypically strict catholic who chides her daughter for marrying a northern irishman . 
she helps them get a rat-infested apartment and malachy goes looking for a job . 
positions are scarce and when he does finally find one , he is unable to hold on to it because of his fondness for drinking . 
meanwhile , frank goes to an uptight catholic school , where the instructors beat students with blunt wooden objects as often as their heart desires . 
two of frank's brothers soon die , crippled by the dreadful living conditions and malnutrition . 
as if the poverty and the suffering weren't intense enough as it stood , malachy and angela have another baby , worsening the situation further . 
i imagine this doesn't sound like much of a plot . 
that's probably because it isn't one . 
these are people . 
this is their story . 
director alan parker ( the commitments ) knows how to tell a good story and angela's ashes , despite its relentlessly literary tone remains interesting . 
though the film occasionally indulges too much in its gloomily picturesque irish setting , it avoids looking like a glorified travelogue . 
supplementing parker's able direction are the engaging , often poignant performances of the leads , some of them seasoned thespians , others relative beginners . 
carlyle , the charismatic british actor who has shown astonishing range by hopping from the lead in a rowdy slapstick comedy to the villain in a james bond movie and now to sentimental melodrama , perfectly portrays his rather pathetic character . 
we empathize with the guy , but we don't like or admire him . 
emily watson turns in a heartfelt , sincere supporting performance . 
it is mostly she who implants that lump in our throats . 
also worthy of mention is little joe breen , whose face graces the film's superb poster . 
it is breen's first feature film and he's extraordinary as young frank . 
not unlike sudden oscar darling haley joel osment of the sixth sense , you can peer into the character's soul through breen's sad eyes . 
on the flip side , one thing that could have vastly improved angela's ashes is a more decisive editor . 
while gerry hambling sure makes the most of the scenery , he and parker also leave in at least a half an hour of unnecessary footage . 
the first half , especially , could have been trimmed down , bringing the film to a more reasonable running time and doing our bladders a favor in the process . 
things pick up at about the halfway point , sort of dismissing a lot of the criticisms i accumulated during the opening hour , but i maintain that the aggressively deliberate pace parker and co . set in the first half was ludicrously unnecessary . 
 * spoiler warning ! 
skip next paragraph if in suspense ! * 
the film's final message is somewhat conflicted , as frankie , in effect , leaves his family famished in ireland while he himself goes back to america . 
what , exactly , are we supposed to make of that ? 
his mother doesn't seem to mind because she wants the best possible future for her son , as any mother would , but it still seems inconsiderate of him . 
i haven't read the book , but i'm sure that mccourt justifies his actions therein ; therefore , i'm suspicious . 
another thing that's never made clear in the movie is the meaning of the title , which , i'm sure , is also explained in the memoir . 
if seen as a film onto itself , rather than an adaptation , angela's ashes stands tall . 
despite a few minor setbacks , it is a captivating story of people forced to live in the trenches by an merciless society where those of weaker character are shoved to the bottom of the financial ladder . 
now that " boogie nights " has made disco respectable again ( well , fashionable at least ) , we shouldn't be surprised to see more films glorifying that dubious era . 
the latest art house interpretation is whit stillman's " the last days of disco . " 
stillman , who made " metropolitan " and " barcelona " using some of the same actors , uses disco's final hours to highlight what is another conversation-heavy movie that benefits from typically astute writing from the director . 
the young , upwardly-mobile professional ( don't call them yuppies ! ) 
men and women of " the last days of disco " frequent a prestigious new york city nightclub pulsating to the bass-pounding rhythms of earth wind and fire , amy grant , and andrea true connection . 
here they talk and talk and talk , intellectualizing about such things as dating , success , and being liked , accepted , and admired . 
if talk is cheap , " the last days of disco " must surely have been an extremely inexpensive movie to shoot . 
what makes the film so entertaining is that this preppie , harvard-educated jet set actually have something to say and say it with wit , perception , and style ( including , at one point , a riotously inventive deconstruction of " the lady and the tramp " ) . 
na ? ve alice ( chlo ? sevigny ) and sophisticated charlotte ( kate beckinsale ) are recent college graduates who work as assistant editors for a new york publishing house . 
charlotte is confident and outspoken--perhaps a little too outspoken ; alice is shy and introverted , " like a kindergarten teacher . " 
the two friends often doll themselves up and head out to the nameless nightspot , looking good and looking for excitement ( and that ms . beckinsale sure looks good on a dancefloor ! ) . 
here they meet , or re-meet , a variety of eligible men , many of whom they knew in college . 
des ( played by stillman favorite christopher eigeman ) is one of the club's managers whose job is on the line for sneaking his ad agency buddies in the back . 
des has reached a crisis point in his life : he just found out--last wednesday , in fact--that he's gay . 
whether it's true or not , it makes for a convenient excuse to dump his latest girlfriend ( jennifer beals in a small but soul-baring turn ) . 
charlotte observes cattily that the only gay thing about des is his mouth . 
jimmy ( mackenzie astin ) is the advertising exec who , by the end of the picture , winds up heading for a new job opportunity in spain ( visions of " barcelona " ? ) . 
josh ( matt keeslar ) is an assistant district attorney who dreams of being able to say , just once , " book this clown ! " 
and robert sean leonard plays another one of alice's revolving suitors ; the two have an amusing exchange about the true definition of virginity . 
any film that can make robert sean leonard palatable is worthy of respect in my book . 
in fact , the entire ensemble is appealing in that well-spoken stillman way . 
while the eschewing of " ferocious pairing " is a favored topic of conversation in the film , the protagonists tend to slip in and out of love , lust , and trouble with each other in an emotional merry-go-round that cleverly develops its characters through the " preferred " dynamics of social group interaction . 
more mature than stillman's previous two films , " the last days of disco " is as consistently droll as it is stimulating . 
it's a movie you should definitely get on down to . 
this has been an extraordinary year for australian films . 
 " shine " has just scooped the pool at the australian film institute awards , picking up best film , best actor , best director etc . to that we can add the gritty " life " ( the anguish , courage and friendship of a group of male prisoners in the hiv-positive section of a jail ) and " love and other catastrophes " ( a low budget gem about straight and gay love on and near a university campus ) . 
i can't recall a year in which such a rich and varied celluloid library was unleashed from australia . 
 " shine " was one bookend . 
stand by for the other one : " dead heart " . 
>from the opening credits the theme of division is established . 
the cast credits have clear and distinct lines separating their first and last names . 
bryan | brown . 
in a desert settlement , hundreds of kilometres from the nearest town , there is an uneasy calm between the local aboriginals and the handful of white settlers who live nearby . 
the local police officer has the task of enforcing " white man's justice " to the aboriginals . 
these are people with a proud 40 , 000 year heritage behind them . 
naturally , this includes their own system of justice ; key to which is " payback " . 
an eye for an eye . 
revenge . 
usually extracted by the spearing through of the recipient's thigh . 
brown , as the officer , manages quite well to keep the balance . 
he admits that he has to 'bend the rules' a bit , including actively encouraging at least one brutal " payback " . 
 ( be warned that this scene , near the start , is not for the squeamish ) . 
the local priest - an aboriginal , but in the " white fellas " church - has a foot on either side of the line . 
he is , figuratively and literally , in both camps . 
ernie dingo brings a great deal of understanding to this role as the man in the middle . 
he is part churchman and part politician . 
however the tension , like the heat , flies and dust , is always there . 
whilst her husband - the local teacher - is in church , white lady kate ( milliken ) and her aborginal friend tony , ( pedersen ) have gone off into the hills . 
he takes her to a sacred site , even today strictly men-only . 
she appears to not know this . 
tony tells her that this is a special place , an initiation place . 
he then makes love to her , surrounded by ancient rock art . 
the community finds out about this sacrilegious act and it's payback time . 
the fuse is lit and the brittle inter-racial peace is shattered . 
everyone is affected in the fall out . 
to say more is to give away the details of this finely crafted film . 
suffice to say it's a rewarding experience . 
bryan brown , acting and co-producing , is the pivotal character . 
his officer is real , human and therefore flawed . 
brown comments that he expects audiences to feel warmth towards the man , then suddenly feel angry about him . 
it wasn't long ago that i visited central australia - ayers rock ( uluru ) and alice springs - for the first time . 
the wide-screen cinematography shows the dead heart of australia in a way that captures it's vicious beauty , but never deteriorates into a moving slide show , in which the gorgeous background dominates those pesky actors in the foreground . 
the cultural clash has provided the thesis for many a film ; from the western to the birdcage . 
at least three excellent australian films have covered the aboriginal people and the line between them and we anglo-saxon 'invaders' : " jedda " , " the chant of jimmie blacksmith " and " the last wave " . 
in a year when the race 'debate' has reared up in australia , it is nourishing to see such an intelligent , non-judgemental film as " dead heart " . 
the aboriginal priest best sums this up . 
he is asked to say if he is a " black fella or white fella " . 
i think the first thing this reviewer should mention is wether or not i am a fan of the x-files . 
first , let me assure you that no prior experience with the series is required to fully enjoy this movie . 
the producers are not stupid , making a movie just for fans of the series is not profitable . 
you have to reach for a larger audience . 
therefore , the movie is quite user-friendly . 
altough , non-fans will only fail to understand certain emotions behind the looks many characters exchange . 
but fear not , duchovny and another man later on provide more than adequate background info on what is going on . 
you will never feel as if you just walked in on the third act of some great opera . 
in any case , the answer is no . 
i am not a fan of the x-files , i only watch it when nothing else is on and i prefer millennium . 
however , since the fox network as been so kind as to air several key episodes for several weeks before the movie's opening weekend i took that opportunity to test the movie . 
i taped all of these episodes and watched them only after seing the movie , i am glad to report that i learned nothing new . 
everything you need to know is explained to the viewer by duchovny and others . 
i know i am going maybe a bit too far to make my point but everybody should get the chance to experience this movie . 
warning : major spoilers follow ! 
please do not read to fully enjoy this movie , you must not be able know what is coming , what exactly is over that hill and what that weird " hummm " sound is all about . 
you have been warned . 
the x-files is what a summer should be . 
exciting , scary , great special effects ( unlike other summer movies the effects do not take over the movie and are only there when it is really necessary ) and good performances . 
this is coming from a guy who thinks david duchovny is the human equivalent of a wooden plank . 
from start to finish , this movie does not let go of you . 
when i compare it with last summer's movies the best way to describe it would be : take the excitement and great score from face/off and the deadly use of sound from event horizon . 
this flick is scary , not in a b movie kind of way where you always know where and when the critter will jump at our heroes . 
in fact , the first time the critter in this movie makes an apperance it is totally out of the blue . 
you might as well bring ear plugs because this thing is louuuudd ! 
the last time a monster scared me that much was when i first saw aliens as a six year old kid . 
you know , when you are affraid to put your feet on the floor because the creature might be under the chair , or when you keep trying to cover your throat with your shirt ? 
so yeah , the x-files is scary . 
and guess what ? 
you never even have to see the monster but your imagination works overtime and it sure beats having to watch a flawed , computer generated , babyzilla , it looks like you could walk right through it not even scarier than your grandma in undies type of monster . 
do not think that the x-files is a monster movie . 
in fact , the creature is there for maybe three minutes total . 
no , the x-files is definately a mulder episode of the series . 
scully is at his side , of course , but gillian anderson gets maybe half the screen time . 
she has a couple of good scenes with duchovny , but she gets kidnapped during the last half hour of the movie so she does not get to do much . 
no , this is mulder's time in the spotlight . 
by now , you have heard of the scene where mulder " showers " independence day . 
if you have not then i will not spoil it for you , let's just say that due to recent events mulder should be " showering " godzilla instead . 
to those of you wondering if mulder discovers that the truth is indeed out there . . . who 
cares ! ? 
if he did find it the series would over anyway so what are you complaining about ? 
the dialogue in interesting and the director is marvelous . 
the camera is almost always looking over the shoulder of our heroes so we feel as if we are right there with them when they open a door or climb a hill . 
the script is spotless , every thing that happens happens for a purpose . 
if you are confused by something , do not worry because it will all become clear later on but , and i cannot stress this enough , pay attention ! ! ! 
unlike most summer movies , the dialogue is twice as important as the effects . 
miss one vital piece of information and , like most people who talk during movies , you will go home and tell all your friends how this movie made no sense . 
also , to those people who need to go to the bathroom during movies . . . don't ! 
the person who watched the movie with me had to go twice and twice she missed an important conversation . 
there is no time to take a breather between scenes because , again unlike most summer movies ( godzilla anybody ? 
 ) the x-files does not need to fill scenes between the suspense and the action with useless subplots , every scene is crucial and serves a purpose . 
who needs to see the blond chiouaoua have a " big emotional scene " between godzilla attacks ? 
so far this summer i have seen only one movie who ranks higher on my list of movies i'd recommend and that is the truman show but it only wins by a nose . 
but the truman show is not what i would call a summer movie , the x-files is . 
what more do you ask from a summer movie other than the chance to be excited ? 
cool effects ? 
it's got some . 
pulse pounding ? 
hell yes ! 
strangely enough , i think that fans of the series will hate this movie while non-fans will have a good time . 
it does not provide answers to the show's many questions , the status quo remains nearly the same and , no , mulder and scully do not get together . 
rating : four and a half out of five stars for the best movie yet this summer , several jump right out of your seat thrills , many " whoah , i never saw that one coming ! " 
moments , four " holy shit , where the hell did that come from " and one heck of an ending . 
you may wonder where this movie lost half a star . 
well , i swore never to give a movie the full five stars so i had to find something about the in his ice truck , the tracks it leaves in the snow behind him go on for several miles but then they just stop . 
it's pretty obvious the film's makers drove the truck for several miles to give the appearance that mulder had been driving for a long time , but in the end it looks like mulder just dropped from the sky and started driving . 
trees lounge is the directoral debut from one of my favorite actors , steve buscemi . 
he gave memorable performences in in the soup , fargo , and reservoir dogs . 
now he tries his hand at writing , directing and acting all in the same flick . 
the movie starts out awfully slow with tommy ( buscemi ) hanging around a local bar the " trees lounge " and him pestering his brother . 
it's obvious he a loser . 
but as he says " it's better i'm a loser and know i am , then being a loser and not thinking i am . " 
well put . 
the story starts to take off when his uncle dies , and tommy , not having a job , decides to drive an ice cream truck . 
well , the movie starts to pick up with him finding a love interest in a 17 year old girl named debbie ( chloe sevigny ) and . . . 
i liked this movie alot even though it did not reach my expectation . 
after you've seen him in fargo and reservoir dogs , you know he is capable of a better performence . 
i think his brother , michael , did an excellent job for his debut performence . 
mr . buscemi is off to a good career as a director ! 
i wish i could say that there is something more to the new star wars installment than what you see in the commercials , but there isn't . 
george lucas is an expert at crafting triumphant , special effects-bound flicks and he has done it again . 
this is the first star wars film i've seen on the big screen , so , of course , the impact was much greater than when i watched the three original episodes on video . 
what is compelling about the phantom menace is not its disposable story , but its amazing visuals . 
basically , the film's plot is centered around trade disputes between two planets . 
qui-gon ( liam neeson ) and his young apprentice obi-wan kenobi ( ewan mcgregor ) set out with the animated jar-jar binks to fix the mess that may result in war . 
when their ship breaks down and they are stranded , they find a young boy , anakin skywalker ( jake lloyd ) and his slave mother . 
qui-gon strongly believes that anakin is destined for jedi greatness and immediately takes him under his wing . 
anakin participates in a heart-pounding podrace , one of the highlights of the film , to get the equipment needed to fix qui-gon's ship . 
however , most everyone is doubtful about entrusting the future to some unknown slave boy . 
meanwhile , queen amadala ( natalie portman ) is frustrated and at wit's end , being na ? ve and young and having so much responsibility on her shoulders . 
there are hardly any emotional scenes in the film- even when we discover that anakin will be leaving his slave mother behind to begin jedi training , the frenzied excitement of the whole film wears down the poignancy to the size of a crumb . 
this does not prove that the phantom menace is poorly made for it is brilliantly made . 
in all the star wars films , human emotions that we , the audience , can identify with are usually nil , but the films are for pure enjoyment , not for uplifting purposes . 
despite the fun of watching the movie , the phantom menace is not without flaws . 
for starters , we have the ill-conceived , moronic character jar-jar binks who should be considered a threat to star wars galactic society and to the audience . 
what a klutz ! 
george lucas clumsily tried to create a fun character that would be as memorable as , say , yoda , r2-d2 , or c3-po , but , alas , his efforts were in vain . 
secondly ( this may be good or bad , depending on your point of view ) , the movie's atmosphere is so different from the familiar comic-book feel of the previous three star wars installments . 
this is due , perhaps , to the utter complexity to this movie's plot and the higher level of sophistication of the visual effects used here . 
the movie seems to be reaching for epic proportions . 
i can't say much about the acting , though acting has never been what you saw star wars movies for anyway . 
however , there is absolutely no pizzazz to the performances- they are straightforward and , at times , stale . 
natalie portman has a great presence , but her turn as queen amadala makes the queen a stoic , unfeeling ? enigma . 
there is nothing we can hold onto in her performance to make us believe the trade predicament is anything of importance . 
jake lloyd is the only actor here who has an ounce of evident spunk . 
despite the inevitable faults , there is so much to enjoy about the movie . 
the heightened excitement of the final sequences doesn't quite surpass the famous the empire strikes back climactic scenes , but they are amazing and edge-of-your-seat fun in their own rite . 
the film is a treasure to look at . 
the visual effects are astonishing 99 . 8% of the time- the awe-inspiring , mouth-opening , eye-popping sight of the underwater city is nothing short of production design and special effects genius . 
not since 1997's the fifth element has there been a film as drenched in visual treats as this one . 
the production design is reminiscent of the fifth element , the previous star wars movies , kubrick's 2001 , maybe even of fritz lang's classic silent metropolis . 
however , all the sets are so original . 
the original star wars movies can't even match the grandeur of this film's visuals and that is a sheer pleasure for the viewer- it gives us hope of even greater things for the upcoming episode . 
the costumes are remarkable and have jean-paul gaultier written all over them . 
whether its queen amadala's gigantic wardrobe complete with gold-embroidery and feathers , or the jedis' simple brown uniforms , the costume designer has fused talent with outrageousness . 
the costumes are one of the true delights of watching the movie . 
as for john williams' score , i don't think he's done one as complex or powerful since ? i can't even remember . 
it is as epic as his schindler's list score and as thrilling and zestful as jaws . 
it includes the bare bones of his music from the previous three films , but williams has added on , made the music much more intense and moving . 
what with the overwhelming hoopla that circled this movie , one might come in with high expectations and be disappointed . 
there is very little to hate in the film : it's a very accomplished and skillfully made flick . 
it is the best " fun " film and the best big-budget film out today , most definitely . 
lisa cholodenko's " high art , " is an intelligent , quiet drama . 
its strongest quality , aside from the top-notch central performances , is the perceptive way in which the film , also written by cholodenko , observes its characters . 
they are all flawed people , some more troubled than others , but they are not judged . 
judging the characters in this picture would be a creative misstep on the filmmakers' parts , because no one , no matter how bad off they are , deserve to be negatively judged if they are involved in some serious problems that they cannot break free of . 
syd ( radha mitchell ) , a 24-year-old woman living with her longtime boyfriend james ( gabriel mann ) , has recently been awarded an ideal job at the high-profile photography magazine , " frame . " 
she very much enjoys where her career is headed , but is often not taken very seriously by her managers , who are always giving her petty jobs to do , when she knows she could be doing more important things . 
one night , while taking a bath , syd notices a leak coming from the apartment above hers , so when she goes up there to inform them of it , she meets lucy beliner ( ally sheedy ) , a thin , worn-out , and unhappy woman , who lives with her drug-addicted german girlfriend , greta ( patricia clarkson ) , a pathetic former actress who is usually so out-of-it that she often is in and out of conciousness . 
syd quickly strikes up a conversation with lucy , and discovers that she used to be an acclaimed photographer ten years before . 
lucy claims she doesn't want to get back into the profession , but syd manages to convince the " frame " editors to do a piece on her work . 
all the while , syd begins to grow deep feelings for lucy , even though she has never previously been attracted to a woman , and lucy starts a battle with her personal demons . 
 " high art , " is such an effective motion picture because it is never suger-coated or idealized , but instead an honest and convincing portrait of a handful of unhappy people whose lives are going nowhere , while syd's luck begins to rise . 
the film in no way is about lesbianism , but about love , which was a refreshing change of pace from the usual stereotypical portraits of homosexuality . 
as lucy and syd grow closer and closer together , we really do believe that they are falling in love with each other , even if the relationship might be doomed . 
with this picture , ally sheedy's star has risen once again , thanks to her touching , nearly flawless portrtayal of lucy , a woman who , in the course of a decade , has found her life consumed almost entirely by drugs , which has taken away her once-blossoming career . 
her characted really is tragic , and one particular scene involving lucy and her mother , in which lucy admits to her that she has a drug problem , and her mother matter-of-factly responds by saying she can't help her , is heartbreaking . 
although not autobiographical , sheedy has had drug problems in her past , and i suspect she brought that knowledge of already being in lucy's footsteps to her role . 
also very good is radha mitchell as syd , who previously starred in the slight 1997 australian comedy , " love and other catastrophes , " wh caught me by surprise with her performance . 
easily being able to pass as christina ricci's older sister , mitchell obtains the same natural charisma that has made ricci so popular recently . 
as accurate as almost every detail is in , " high art , " i wish the relationship had been more tightly written involving syd and james , who , played by gabriel mann , is left with a throwaway role . 
by the time he finds out about syd and lucy , he disappears from the film , and i wish there had been another scene where they confronted each other . 
this is a very minor fault , however , in a film that is full of riches . 
although many of the characters are stuck in a hopeless pit of despair , syd and lucy are intelligent people who recognize their problems . 
the character of dominique ( anh duong ) , the " frame " editor who decides to give syd a chance with her ideas , was also written to be far more mature than expected . 
and the one sex scene in the film was beautifully and originally done . 
for once , it did not invlove steaminess , or violent sexual activity , or gratuitous nudity , but focused on the actual characters , who love each other , and their insecurities involved in making the decision to actually have sex . 
 " high art , " which won the screenwriting award at the 1998 sundance film festival , marks the superior feature film debut of cholodenko , as well as sheedy's strongest , and best , role to date . 
the relaxed dude rides a roller coaster 
the big lebowski a film review by michael redman copyright 1998 by michael redman 
the most surreal situations are ordinary everyday life as viewed by an outsider . 
when those observers are joel and ethan coen , the surreal becomes bizarre . 
when the life is that of jeff " the dude " leboswki , the bizarre falls over the edge into the world of " what'sgoingonaroundhere " . 
the marvelous sound of " the stranger " ( sam elliot ) 's voice-over introduces the film . 
at least it does until he forgets what he was going to say and gives up . 
the dude ( jeff bridges ) is described as the " laziest man in los angeles , possibly the world " , although he's not so much slothful as he is relaxed . 
spending the last 30 years with a roach clip in one hand and a white russian in the other , he doesn't have much of a life , but he's having a good time . 
when asked what he does for fun , he responds " bowl , drive around and the occasional acid flashback " . 
lebowski's passion is bowling . 
when he's not rolling the ball down an alley towards a strike , things just happen to him . 
arriving home one night , he's beaten by thugs attempting to collect money that his wife owes them . 
even worse , they urinate on his rug . 
the problem is that the dude doesn't have a wife . 
his assailants realize that their target is a different lebowski when they glance around at his apartment . 
the " big " lebowski ( david huddleston ) is a multi-millionaire and his dudeness lives in two-room squalor . 
the next day , our ragtag hero visits his namesake's mansion attempting compensation for his soaked rug . 
the carpet is important to him because it pulls the room together : not surprisingly since it's virtually the only object there . 
when he's denied any money , he picks up a replacement rug off the floor . 
on his way out , he runs into lebowski's trophy babe wife bunny ( tara reid ) who offers to perform a sexual act that , according to rumor , is one of bill clinton's favorites for a thousand bucks . 
the penniless dude wisecracks that he's heading for the cash machine . 
later he gets an unexpected phone call enlisting his aid in being the bag man to deliver a ransom to bunny's kidnappers . 
this begins the trademarked coen brothers crimes-gone-wrong sequences . 
the kidnappers are impossibly inept . 
the dude and his cronies are even worse . 
every plan goes awry . 
you can almost see lebowski's brain churning in slow motion as he tries to figure out the clues . 
that's the story , but to tell the truth it doesn't much matter . 
there could be almost any plot and the film would be just as entertaining . 
the narrative only exists so we can watch the offbeat characters and the quirky predicaments they fall into . 
the dude's bowling buddies walter ( john goodman ) and donny ( steve buscemi ) look like people you'd see on the street but , like everything else in this film , they're not quite what they seem . 
walter is a vet as stuck in vietnam as the dude is in the sixties . 
everything that happens reminds him of a situation in the nam . 
when a fellow bowler crosses the foul line but won't admit it , walter pulls a gun on him until he marks a zero on the score sheet . 
donny gets precious few words in between walter's screaming and the dude's rambling . 
when he does , walter shouts him down with horrendous albeit seemingly unintentional bowling puns . 
donny is " out of his league " and doesn't " have a frame of reference " . 
the film is peppered with people for whom the term " character " would be an understatement . 
the big lebowski's daughter maude , an avant-garde " vaginal " artist , paints while swinging naked in a leather apparatus like an s&m mary martin . 
the kidnappers are german techno nihilist bikers . 
bunny lebowski is a high school cheerleader turned porno star . 
most impressive is john turturro in his far too small role as a hispanic bowler . 
as the flamenco music swells , we see him putting on his lavender hose . 
the camera pans up to an all-purple skin-tight bowling outfit with " jesus " ( pronounced with a " j " , not an " h " ) embroidered on the pocket . 
he addresses the lane with intense seriousness and one painted fingernail . 
his tongue slowly snakes out and lovingly licks the glowing bowling ball . 
bridges works the dude as if he had been living him for decades and maybe he has . 
i can't think of anyone else who could have done a better job . 
buscemi has a limited role , but he plays it perfectly . 
the more that i see john goodman the more convinced i am that he's one of the treasures of our time . 
it's odd to think that most of the world knows him only as roseanne barr's television husband . 
more like the coen's " raising arizona " than their hit " fargo " , " the big lebowski " demands an open mind and even more open eyes . 
a mark of the coen brothers is that even with all wonderful dream sequences and the broad slapstick physical comedy on the screen , much of the humor is subtle and easy to miss . 
there's so much going on that frequently it disappears before you can see it . 
walking out of the theater , i felt that the film had something important to say . 
on further examination , i wasn't sure exactly what it was . 
 " if you meet jesus at the bowling alley , it's not going to be what you expect " ? 
 " when the going gets weird , the weird go bowling " ? 
maybe there's no real message . 
perhaps it's just a roller coaster ride through a hilarious world . 
maybe that's enough . 
 ( michael redman has written this column for 23 years and just realized that he was so taken with the dude that he ran out of space to talk about " the man in the iron mask " starring that favorite of 14-year-old girls of all ages . 
redman@bvoice . com is the eaddress for estuff . ) 
i don't box with kid gloves . 
i don't play nice , i'm not a nice guy , and i never , ever , go easy on a film . 
i consider it to be a breech of some sort of code of ethics for a movie critic . 
however , i do some favors , and these often come in the form of points that i hand to certain groups due to the artistic bravery . 
rigormortis , the production company that has been my prime example of how money does not need to motivate filmmaking , gets several of these points each time . 
i still , however , will not go easy on them . 
they recently sent me a vhs copy of their down with america trilogy ( which begins , quite wittily , with a disclaimer that they are not trying to undermine america with the making of this film . ) and i decided to spend an hour of my day watching it . 
in the famous lines of many martyrs , i have no regrets . 
well , i do have some regrets , but that is not the point in the previous sentence . 
the point of it was that down with america was a film that , from a critical standpoint , did not entirely disappoint me . 
sure , the risky use of vhs instead of super 8mm or 16mm was a pain , and the natural light was one of the most annoying things about public access films , but the movie itself was fairly enjoyable . 
down with america concerns a government agent , needless murder , and a book containing everything from the unabomber's manifesto to the 1995 apple computer profit report . 
like the previous films of rigormortis that i have reviewed , it displays an off-kilter humor and intelligence ? it succeeds in making me laugh where countless studio films fail . 
the best way to see this film would be as a parody of the countless conspiracy films that we have been drowned in since the paranoia of the 80s . 
a dying movement from the day they started , these paranoid `thrillers' had the government always covering up something and had the same favorite word : `roswell . ' 
in down with america , the line `roswell' is highly absent . 
with an about ten minute running time , down with america effortlessly sidesteps every clich ? that the conspiracy films fell into , makes jokes at them at the same time , and provides us with funny and memorable characters . 
again , i have seen movies that have gone on two hours with characters i couldn't care less about . 
the film , as previously stated , concerns a federal agent ( peter roach ) , an obsessed librarian ( meri stevens ) , a mystery man ( joe kaczkowski ) , and two people obsessed with silence in the library ( robb sherman , kevin flowers ) . 
the plot : a book containing the secrets of all anarchists is hidden in ? a public library where it can be viewed by all . 
from there we go into a delightful parody . 
the federal agent claims his sovereign right to alter the truth , the librarian goes on a diatribe about the sanctity of books . 
we spend our time laughing at fairly idiotic jokes that are performed much too well considering the lack of coaching of the cast . 
although the actors and actresses are in small roles and give a whole new meaning to `no-name' , it ends up being the no-name people who do a good job , delivering better performances as comic villains than half the crap that hollywood turns out . 
for once , i don't have a url that i know offhand to give you as to where to locate the film online . 
i can only say that you should find my previous reviews of l'auto and les x-files and look up the rigormortis productions site in and of itself . 
it's almost as much fun as the film . 
here is a film that is so unexpected , so scary , and so original that it caught me off guard and threw me for a loop . 
okay , it isn't quite original , considering it is a sequel to the box office hit species , but it certainly is smart . 
most films of this genre are reminiscent of those cheesy b-horror films from the 50s and 60s , and some even become them . 
however , as we learned with the 1995 small-budget horror/sci-fi film , sometimes expectations can be shattered . 
a lot of criticism has gone against this film ( from what i have read so far , anyway--yep , all two reviews ) , and it makes me wonder why these types of films are automatically dismissed as gory , laughable pieces of trash . 
but , the thing is , it isn't . 
it's well made , well acted , and quite intelligent . 
i can see most of the critics now complaining about the level of gore or the level of sexuality in the film . 
but the species series isn't about the lack of these elements . 
it's about how much it can get into one film . 
and yet , behind it all , it has this basic premise that allows it to get away with doing so . 
species ii begins in the present day , though it seems to be an alternate universe . 
many films ( especially sci-fi ones ) create similar timelines as our realistic one , but change it to fit the film's needs . 
species ii begins with the arrival of an american spacecraft , the excursion , landing on the surface of mars . 
aboard is patrick ross ( justin lazard ) , a very bright and very handsome astronaut . 
patrick is the son of senator ross ( james cromwell ) , who just wants patrick to succeed . 
well , it would seem that he has succeeded . 
landing on the surface of mars , he is the first human being to ever do so . 
of course , he isn't the first ever . 
about a billion years ago , an alien species supposedly landed on mars and destroyed the perfect living conditions that were able to sustain life . 
now , of course , the red planet is cold and rocky . 
no life lives on it . 
that is , no visible life . 
patrick , upon leaving the spacecraft and landing on the red soil , collects samples from the ground . 
he takes them aboard , and puts them in storage . 
unfortunately , one of the samples contains a form of life , and it gets loose when it is heated aboard the ship . 
just prior to heading back to earth , this life form creeps along the floor and inhabits the earthlings . 
they pass out for approximately seven minutes , and then shrug it off as nothing , because they can't even remember . 
they blame it on a technical malfunction . 
back on earth , patrick begins to have strong urges to mate with as many women as possible . 
as we know from the original , this is because the alien wants to breed and take over the planet . 
however , the children that are bred are half-human , as their father is . 
patrick is really looking for another alien to breed with , and he finds it in eve ( natasha henstridge ) . 
eve was cloned from dna taken from sil , the original alien . 
however , this time around , most of her " alien " urges have been either decreased dramatically , or lie dormant . 
the project is led by dr . laura baker ( marg helgenberger , reprising her role from species ) , and her motives seem respectable . 
since she was involved with the original alien attack , she wants to learn how to stop the alien should it come again . 
and it has . 
story-wise , species ii is much stronger than its predecessor , but it is also much stronger than , say , aliens ( hey , i love the film , but you can't tell me it was strong on story ) . 
what surprised me the most with this film was the incorporation of historical facts into the screenplay . 
in my search for extraterrestrial intelligence course in college , we learned about a piece of rock from mars which landed in one of the poles . 
this piece of rock contained fossils which may have been proof of life on mars ( later , it was proven that it was not a living creature that created it ) . 
the script uses this effectively , but also manages to provide a well-balanced plot . 
beginning with the first man on mars ( something i have always dreamed of seeing ) , i was hoping that the film would turn this element into a useful starting point for the movie . 
and it does it quite well . 
the characters are all smart , and they know what to do and what not to do . 
the only character that seems a little cliched is the general ( george dzundza ) , and yet , he remains logical in everything he does . 
there are the obvious flaws of course , mostly lying in the technical aspects . 
the special effects are only mediocre , and some are just plain bad . 
but for the most part , they remain believable ( i even noticed a homage to the alien series when the mothers gave birth to alien children ) . 
also , the most realistic ones are usually the goriest , ranging from people being torn open , or someone's head being blown off . 
however , some plot elements also may elicit laughs from the audience , including a menage a troi that is all but necessary . 
many people dislike the species series because all it is is an excuse for sex , nudity , and gory violence . 
however , i tend to disagree . 
what were the alien films about ? 
and , if an alien species ever did come to earth , and their sole purpose was to destroy us , wouldn't you mate as quickly as possible with as many people as possible ? 
my only gripe with this is during the scene where patrick goes searching for a mate in a grocery store . 
i didn't realize that aliens were that picky on choosing women to mate with ( i just assume it is his part-human side looking for the most beautiful one ) . 
the acting is quite good for this kind of film . 
it is a vast improvement over the first film , at least . 
the acting is the key element to this film : if it was bad , it would have lowered itself into camp ; if it was good , it would have asked for comparison with films like aliens . 
okay , so it isn't that good . 
george dzundza is probably the most obvious mistake on casting , as his over-the-top impersonation of a general makes him annoying and distracting . 
natasha henstridge is limited this time around , as she is usually enclosed in a cage . 
however , she does manage a very impressive performance with this aspect hindering any of her talent . 
oh yeah , and she's quite fun to just plain watch . 
marg helgenberger is immensely better this time around , and her performance is probably the best in this film . 
michael madsen is so-so , but he isn't annoying , and he soon becomes rather appealing ( with his nice cynic personality ) . 
james cromwell has a small part , but he makes it much better than what it could have been with a more incapable actor . 
as i say , any film with james cromwell dramatically increases in likeability . 
mykelti williamson gives an enjoyable performance , and he gives the film a more down-to-earth feel . 
and , of course , justin lazard . 
lazard has so far been ridiculed for his performance , but i think he is effective . 
sure , he is wooden , but isn't that what his character is like ? 
the moment when he touches the glass separating henstridge from him was extremely well done , due to the couple's acting . 
species ii is rated r for strong sexuality , sci-fi violence/gore and language . 
this is definitely an r rated film that young kids should not see . 
more than likely , they would probably have nightmares and never have sex for the rest of their lives . 
hell , i don't even know if i will . 
what is sure to be a critically lambasted film turns out to be the surprise film of the year . 
i probably won't see another film where i was expecting so little and got so much for quite a while . 
director peter medak has crafted a very suspenseful , and sometimes very scary movie out of a mediocre series . 
medak has also mastered the wonderful " jump ! " 
moments , and has probably the second scariest moment i have ever seen on film ( scream still has the first ) . 
strong acting , smart dialogue , intelligent plotting , and a sure-handed director , species ii is exactly what these films should be : entertaining . 
plot : this movie takes place over one day . 
it's a rookie cop's narcotics training alongside a seasoned police veteran . 
the rookie doesn't know much about " street justice " , so the older cop teaches him about the way things work in the " real world " . 
how even cops like themselves have to " bend the rules " and " break the law " every now and then , in order to catch the really bad guys . 
critique : a pretty intense little movie with solid acting across the board , some ups , some downs and a thrilling ending , despite a couple of small flaws . 
i really enjoyed this movie because it followed two extreme characters and put them in situations which had me wondering about what i would do if i were in their place . 
the film gets right into the " dirty " side of , well . . . the 
dirt on the streets , and proceeds to teach the rookie cop ( and us , the audience ) how things really work down there . 
of course , we're receiving this lesson from a man who has put away a lot of scum in his time , but the things he seems to be doing aren't exactly on the up-and-up either . 
and therein , lies the fun of the film . 
do you agree that you yourself would need to break a few small laws in order to put away the people who break the really big ones ? 
well , as the film moves along , we're given two points of view in respect to this predicament , and to me , both sides made sense at some point or another . 
and you gotta give a lot of credit to the screenplay for that , the director , who builds the film up wonderfully ( with the darkness of the day leading to the darkness in the script ) and the two actors who deliver their parts in spades . 
hawke , first off , because he rarely plays these " commercial " roles but does so perfectly here , with a vulnerable side which has you feeling for the bastard right off the top . 
and denzel , well , what can you say about mr . washington that hasn't already been said before ? 
he comes through as per his usual high-level style here , and gives the audience a completely different side to his talent , of which , i personally would like to see more . 
he's nice , he's not so nice , he's smart , he's not so smart , he's caring and he's a dog all the way . 
the few problems that i did have with this film included the redundant nature of the whole thing at some point ( okay , we get it . . . you 
have to be nasty in order to deal with these nasty people . . . move on ) and this one really major " coincidence " which involved a bathtub , that saved the day for one character , but seemed a little too " convenient " for my taste . 
i also never really understood how washington's character got out of a certain dire predicament , only to be seen driving his car in the very next scene . 
but obviously these small flaws didn't taint my overall enjoyment of this tense drama , a film that gets you right into the streets , into the nooks and the crannies , and into the moral dilemma which lies between the justice system and the day-to-day drug busts . 
see it if you want to wrestle with some of these issues yourself , see it if you want to see denzel and ethan strike up a palpable chemistry on-screen , and see it if you like holding on to your seat-handles real tight during a movie . 
in fact , see it for the scene in which ethan hawke plays cards with a host of gang-bangers alone . . . dang , now that's intense ! 
where's joblo coming from ? 
the corruptor ( 7/10 ) - crimson tide ( 9/10 ) - l . a . confidential ( /10 ) - lethal weapon ( 8/10 ) - requiem for a dream ( 8/10 ) - seven ( 10/10 ) - shaft ( 7/10 ) - traffic ( 8/10 ) 
a thriller set in modern day seattle , that marked marky mark's migration from the " good vibrations " and " calvin klein undie ad " guy , to mark wahlberg , thespian-at-large , and a mighty good one at that . 
plot : boy ( wahlberg ) meets girl ( witherspoon ) . 
boy likes girl . 
girl likes boy . 
boy and girl begin dating . 
parents of girl aren't crazy about the boy . 
girl steps to boy's defense . 
family problems occur . 
girl learns more about the boy . 
boy goes nuts . 
fun ensues . 
critique : ever wonder what would happen if your better half turned out to be someone other than the person that you had come to cherish and love ? 
well , if you ever have , then this film is definitely for you . 
it isn't the most original premise in the world , but it is handled pretty well here , and pretty quickly for that matter ( a speedy 90 minutes ) . 
i think one of the main reasons this film worked for me is the groundbreaking performance by mark wahlberg ( of boogie nights infamy ( 7 . 5/10 ) . 
he completely captured all the goodness , and badness , of the main character of this film , and always kept me wanting to see more and more of him ( his performance scored him a solid nomination from his core target audience , as " best villain " at the 1997 mtv movie awards ) . 
the soundtrack is also very effective in this setting , and of course , the slutty performance by alyssa milano is something we could all indulge in ( look for the nice bikini and butt shots . . . if 
you're into that kind of thing , that is : ) . 
i didn't much care for the father/david relationship which seemed to be a little too contrived , but for the most part , i was really into this movie . 
then again , daddy dearest did have one of the coolest lines in the movie when his wife is asking him what the " big deal " was about his daughter dating david . 
his reply : " the big deal is that the guy gives me the creeps , and the girl is my daughter . " 
good point . 
all in all , the movie kicked some fun ass , mindless as it was , and effectively demonstrated every parent's worst nightmare . 
mind you , i still can't tell if reese witherspoon is good looking or a douchebag , but hey , life goes on . 
and on a personal note , we finally decided to add some taco meat onto our nacho fiesta of usual , and let me tell you all . . . it was a flaming success ! ! 
another firm recommendation by joe schmoe ! 
little known facts : director james foley was the man responsible for the critically acclaimed glengarry glenross ( 8/10 ) back in 1992 , at close range ( 7 . 5/10 ) in 1986 , and even directed an episode of twin peaks in 1990 . 
mark wahlberg stands 5 " 9 , is born in massachusetts , dropped out of highschool ( later got his ged ) , and was convicted of several minor felonies before starting his career as the lead singer of marky mark and the funky bunch . 
his brother is donnie wahlberg of new kids on the block fame . 
he is also testing the waters on the acting front . 
wow ! what a movie . 
it's everything a movie can be : funny , dramatic , interesting , weird , funny , weird and strikingly original . 
yep that pretty much describes this movie . 
it starts out like a regular movie and ends up being one of the weirdest , funniest most original movies i have ever seen . 
it boggles the mind and some have to wonder why we cannot get movies like this more often . 
besides being one of the best films of the year , being john malkovich may as well be one of the best movies ever . 
period . 
then again there are so many good movies , that one cannot pick an all time favorite . 
john cusack plays a puppeteer craig schwartz a man out of a job , in search of a job . 
his wife lotte schwartz who is played by a completely un-noticeable cameron diaz who looks like something off the streets is an animal lover and has about every kind of animal you could think of . 
craig finds a job as a file at the 7 ? floor of a business building . . . you 
have to pry open the elevator doors open before it reaches floor eight , the 7 ? floor is just a floor between 7 and 8 . 
he is hired by his 105 year old boss ( orsen bean ) to be a filer . 
in his office , he discovers a little door , to which was boarded up and hidden . 
to his curiosity he opens it and starts to crawl toward it , he then gets sucked to the end and ends up in john malkovich's mind . 
fifteen minutes later he is shot out onto the side of the new jersey turnpike . 
he returns to tell his co-worker maxine ( catherine keener ) that he has found a portal that will lead him into john malkovich's mind , she doesn't believe him but after she sees it it changes her mind . 
lotte also finds out about the portal and discovers that being someone else is good after all . 
john malkovich of course has no idea what is going on , and by the end of this bizarre film there are so many twists and turns , that we don't know what really happened . 
john cusack is outstanding and utterly believeable in a role only he himself could play . 
he fits the role perfectly and to me was brilliantly cast . 
cameron diaz is outstanding and utterly one of the world's most prettiest women , is made up here unnoticeable and very unattractive . 
she however gives a very comic performance and this could easily be her best role to date . 
catherine keener is very funny and sexy as maxine and of course the best thing of the movie is the magic himself john malkovich who is very brilliant and this movie plays big time homage ? to the master himself . 
the whole group combined gives us a wonderfully funny movie that is also smart and clever . 
spike jonze ( three kings ) makes his fabulous directing debut , and did a fantastic job of directing this new classic film . 
he lets the viewer go on the trip as well as let the viewer know they are watching a movie . 
by the time the ending rolled around my head was spinning from disbelief of how good this film was . 
the screenplay written by charlie kaufman was hilarious and often thought-provoking . 
the film also had a soft side to it and even though the ending is very surprising it is also a little sad and heart-warming . 
the whole movie was fantastic and had me rolling in the isles . 
from cameron diaz's appearence to john malkovich's explorations i laughed very hard , and it may as well be as funny as as good as it gets ( the funniest ! ) . 
there isn't a slow point in the movie , or an overused idea . 
there are no cliches except for the fact that this is the most original , inventie , witty , and smart movie i've seen in a long time . 
i found myself amazed by everything : the direction , acting , writing and the whole idea of the movie . 
by the end i had to wonder why hollywood doesn't want to make movies like this anymore . 
or why they don't . 
all filmmakers watch this movie and get some ideas of movies to come out . 
this was a surprise hit as was american beauty . 
'being john malkovich' is in the top 5 movies of the year , and in the top 10 best films ever made . 
it has something that no other movies playing now has . 
in fact it may as well be the best movie out right now . 
i highly recommend 'being john malkovich' and have no doubts you will be disappointed . 
richard gere can be a commanding actor , but he's not always in great films . 
everything comes together here . 
gere is a big time chicago defense attorney who takes on a seemingly unwinable case in hopes of even more publicity . 
it doesn't go exactly as he expects . 
gere's client , aaron ( edward norton ) , is a shy stuttering tennessee boy who is accused of brutally murdering and mutilating a catholic archbishop . 
the evidence is stacked against him . 
he was caught running from the scene covered in the bishop's blood . 
his bloody footprints are all over the murder scene . 
he has a relationship with the priest . 
gere talks to the boy , believes that he is actually innocent and sets about finding the real killer . 
despite the lawyer's proclamations that he doesn't care about the guilt of his clients and that the real thrill is gambling with people's lives , he becomes involved with aaron and is determined to free him . 
lots of complications and twists . 
the prosecuting attorney is gere's former co-worker and lover . 
they both work each other's motives to their legal advantages and it gets messy . 
her boss had major economic dealings with the archbishop that went sour and seems to have crime connections . 
aaron gets weirder and weirder as the trial goes on . 
gere's case is falling apart and he is faced with about a dozen ethical dilemmas . 
gere is exceptional as the well-dressed reserved counselor , but just once , i wanted to see him kick back and come out of his " suit " persona . 
even when he loses it , you don't see very far inside . 
norton's aaron is convincing : he comes across as the backwoods kid misplaced in the big city . 
the supporting cast does a fine job of holding together the story . 
as with most of the effective courtroom dramas , the cinematography is crisp and rich . 
the story will keep you on the edge of your seat . 
nothing is what it seems . 
glory--starring matthew broderick , denzel washington , and morgan freeman--is the true story of the 54th regiment of massachusetts , the first black fighting unit recruited by the north during the civil war . 
broderick plays robert gould shaw , the young white officer who led the black soldiers into battle . 
shaw , the son of well-to-do abolitionists , hailed from boston high society . 
the letters he wrote home to his parents during the war are on display at harvard , and were , evidently , the inspiration for glory . 
as the film begins in 1862 , shaw is a captain in the northern forces . 
like private eriksson ( michael j . fox ) in casualties of war , shaw initially is naive and idealistic about the war--that is , until his company is attacked by enemy forces . 
shaw experiences first hand the horror and chaos of battle , witnessing mass slaughter and receiving a minor wound himself when a bullet grazes his neck . 
soon after his recovery , shaw is promoted to colonel and assigned to enlist and train blacks in the war effort . 
glory is the story not only of colonel shaw , but also of the black soldiers who laid down their lives to free their brothers from slavery . 
the film periodically jumps between shaw's point of view and the perspective of the black soldiers . 
the movie introduces us to a handful of black recruits , and we follow them from their enlistment through basic training and finally into action . 
the large black cast is uniformly outstanding , especially washington who is electrifying as a runaway slave with a big mouth . 
he is brash and pushy , always getting into trouble and always looking for a fight . 
his bitter , tough guy facade is really just a mask for his loneliness and vulnerability . 
washington provides much of the film's intensity and emotional power . 
in one heartbreaking scene , he is whipped for allegedly deserting the army . 
when he removes his shirt to receive the punishment , you cringe at the sight of his back , which is riddled with ugly scars from his days as a slave . 
it makes your blood boil . 
the humiliation of the beating is far more traumatic than the actual physical pain it brings ; a tear rolls down washington's cheek--and will probably run down your cheek as well . 
the episode becomes even more tragic when we learn that washington wasn't deserting the army at all ; he left camp to look for shoes because his feet were covered with oozing sores . 
freeman is , as usual , a strong presence , even in a small supporting role . 
he plays a grave digger who has buried more white soldiers than he cares to remember . 
he quickly becomes a leader among the black soldiers , holding the group together and serving as a liaison to the white officers . 
colonel shaw recognizes freeman's leadership ability and promotes him to sergeant major , making him the first black officer in the army . 
andre braugher makes an impressive film debut in the role of thomas searles , a free black who is one of shaw's close childhood friends . 
searles is educated and refined , like a white man , prompting washington to nickname him " snow flake . " 
the burning question is whether searles is tough enough to survive basic training and to kill in combat . 
the road from marching drills to battle action is a bumpy one for the black regiment . 
the soldiers suffer innumerable hardships , but somehow they never lose their morale . 
the army treats the black soldiers like second class citizens , subjecting them to racism and discrimination . 
they are paid only $10 a month , whereas their white counterparts earn thirteen , and , for a long time , they have to go without shoes , guns , or uniforms . 
to make matters worse , the white military hierarchy is extremely reluctant to allow the blacks into action , preferring instead to use them for manual labor . 
eventually , however , the regiment receives its boots , uniforms , rifles , and right to fight , thanks to the stubborn resolve of colonel shaw . 
shaw has absolute faith in his soldiers , and he fights tooth and nail to get them what they deserve , even if it means threatening a general with blackmail . 
broderick , in fact , is most convincing in the scenes where shaw stands up for the regiment . 
unfortunately , however , broderick's uneven performance is , in many respects , the weak link in the movie . 
in an effort to look more mature , broderick sports a mustache and a goatee , and throughout the film he slips in and out of a phony boston accent . 
he is never altogether convincing as shaw since much of the time his emotions seem forced . 
the film places too much weight on broderick's character and not enough on the black soldiers , who are more intriguing . 
glory regains lost ground with its harrowing depiction of war . 
the movie shows the devastation of war without resorting to the unnecessarily graphic gore which marred born on the fourth of july . 
glory does not try to rattle you with nauseating blood and guts . 
except for a few bullet wounds and one exploding head , the film , for the most part , leaves the gore to your imagination , which is not to say that the battle scenes in glory are timid . 
to the contrary , they are chaotic and horrifying ; it's just that director edward zwick ( the co-creator of " thirtysomething " ) films them with far more subtlety and restraint than oliver stone could ever muster . 
the key to glory is the group dynamic among the black soldiers . 
the movie depicts some of ( but not enough of ) their customs and rituals . 
in one scene , for example , the soldiers motivate themselves by singing prayers around the campfire . 
each man has a chance to relay a few words of inspiration . 
a couple of the movie's most touching moments involve young black children looking up to the black soldiers with awe , disbelief and pride . 
the regiment's greatest triumph comes when the soldiers distinguish themselves in battle , thereby earning the respect of their white peers and earning the honor of leading the climactic assault on fort wagner . 
like any war film , glory has its share of gloom and despair , but ultimately it proves to be a truly uplifting experience and an important history lesson , a valuable reminder that despite what the history books say ( or , more precisely , what they do not say ) , blacks played a critically important role in the north's victory over the south--forever changing the evolution of america . 
steven spielberg's second epic film on world war ii is an unquestioned masterpiece of film . 
spielberg , ever the student on film , has managed to resurrect the war genre by producing one of its grittiest , and most powerful entries . 
he also managed to cast this era's greatest answer to jimmy stewart , tom hanks , who delivers a performance that is nothing short of an astonishing miracle . 
for about 160 out of its 170 minutes , " saving private ryan " is flawless . 
literally . 
the plot is simple enough . 
after the epic d-day invasion ( whose sequences are nothing short of spectacular ) , capt . john miller ( hanks ) and his team are forced to search for a pvt . 
james ryan ( damon ) , whose brothers have all died in battle . 
once they find him , they are to bring him back for immediate discharge so that he can go home . 
accompanying miller are his crew , played with astonishing perfection by a group of character actors that are simply sensational . 
barry pepper , adam goldberg , vin diesel , giovanni ribisi , davies , and burns are the team sent to find one man , and bring him home . 
the battle sequences that bookend the film are extraordinary . 
literally . 
there is nothing in film that has ever been recorded that will prepare you for the sheer onslaught of terrorizing violence in the film's first 20 minutes . 
spielberg films almost the entire movie without music , leaving it up to the characters to generate emotion , and they do to perfection . 
the sequences in france , all of them , beginning with the battle and ending with the battle , are fabulous , especially the dialogues between the men as they walk through the hills and countrysides , trying to save private ryan . 
there are no words i can use to describe the true horror and power of these sequences . 
this is what coppola was looking for in " apocalypse now " , but couldn't create . 
the sheer horror of these sequences all but condemn war . 
the performance by hanks as the leader of this gang is also extraordinary . 
he is head and shoulders above of the rest of the actors in the world , with his comic timing , dramatic flair , his quiet emotion that stirs an entire nation to tears . 
hanks is this country's finest actor , and he proves it here . 
however , spielberg almost destroys his own masterpiece . 
with a chance to make it the one of the greatest films of all time , spielberg creates 10 minutes of purely worthless film . 
the sequence involving army chief-of-stafff george marshall and mrs . ryan is decent , but doesn't hold up to the rest of the film , relying on wartime cliches to power it . 
but that is forgivable . 
what isn't is the bookends of the film , the cemetary sequences . 
the first one is quite good , a decent introduction into the lives of these men . 
the last sequence is atrocious . 
the forced emotion , accompanied by a ridiculous piece of music , is simply horrible compared to the rest of the magical film . 
these flaws are what downgrade " ryan " from the greatest film of our era , to the greatest war film of our era . 
spielberg should have trusted his own material , and he should have trusted hanks to deliver the most chilling line of the movie , to end his masterpiece right there . 
the use of the flag , though patriotic , is in contrast to the movie's theme . 
the power of the bulk of the film , however , is astonishing . 
spielberg has truly made a wondrous work of art , that persists even after first viewing of the film , is extraordinary . 
this is the film of the year . 
truman ( " true-man " ) burbank is the perfect name for jim carrey's character in this film . 
president truman was an unassuming man who became known worldwide , in spite of ( or was it because of ) his stature . 
 " truman " also recalls an era of plenty following a grim war , an era when planned communities built by government scientists promised an idyllic life for americans . 
and burbank , california , brings to mind the tonight show and the home of nbc . 
if hollywood is the center of the film world , burbank is , or was , the center of tv's world , the world where our protagonist lives . 
combine all these names and concepts into " truman burbank , " and you get something that well describes him and his artificial world . 
truman leads the perfect life . 
his town , his car , and his wife are picture perfect . 
his idea of reality comes under attack one day when a studio light falls from the sky . 
the radio explains that an overflying airplane started coming apart . 
 . 
 . 
but then why would an airplane be carrying a studio light ? 
the next day during the drive to work , the radio jams and he starts picking up a voice that exactly describes his movements . 
he is so distracted that he nearly hits a pedestrian . 
when the radio comes back to normal , the announcer warns listeners to drive carefully . 
his suspicion aroused , he wanders around the town square looking for other oddities . 
the world appears to be functioning properly until he enters an office building and tries to take the elevator . 
the elevator doors open up on a small lounge with people on coffee breaks . 
a grip sees truman him and quickly moves a paneled door , made to look like the back of an elevator , into place . 
two security guards grab him and throw him out . 
truman is really suspicious now . 
it gets even worse the next day when his wife , a nurse , describes an elevator accident in the building where he saw the lounge . 
 " it's best not to think about it , " she says , trying vainly to change truman's memory . 
truman becomes determined to see who or what is behind this apparently elaborate hoax at his expense . 
at every turn he is stopped by an amazing coincidence that just happens to keep him in his own little town . 
his last hope is to quell his fear of the ocean and sail to the edge of the world . 
you know by now that truman's life is the subject of a television program . 
his actions are " real " but everything else is carefully scripted , from the death of his father to the choice of his wife . 
truman is determined to find out what the big hoax is . 
meanwhile , christof , the all-seeing creator of truman's world does his best to keep him unaware and happy . 
it's sort of like westworld told from the robots' point of view , or jurassic park from the dinosaurs' point of view . 
we root for the captive of the cage-world . 
our protagonist is counting on " chaos theory " to help him escape his elaborate trap . 
the story , written by andrew niccol ( writer/director of gattaca ) , introduces some interesting questions , such as the ethics of subjecting a person to this type of life , or the psychological impact of learning that your entire life has all been fake . 
although these questions came to mind , i don't think the film itself asked them . 
it certainly didn't address them or try to answer them . 
i was particularly disappointed that the film didn't deal more with the trauma of learning one's life is a tv show . 
carrey's performance at the end showed a smidgen of truman's pain , but i almost felt that he got over it too easily for the sake of the film's pacing . 
earlier in the movie i found myself wondering if it would be better for truman to find out the truth or whether i should root for him to be well . 
the two seemed exclusive of one another , but weir and niccol didn't see it that way . 
perhaps it's not fair to criticize a movie for what it isn't , but it seems like there were some missed opportunities here . 
but on its own terms , the movie is well made . 
sight , sound and pacing are all handled competently . 
much of the first part of the movie is the truman show . 
the scenes are all apparently shot from hidden cameras , with snoots and obstructions covering the corners of the screen . 
one hidden camera is apparently in his car radio , the green led numbers obscuring the lower part of the screen . 
the music is well-chosen and scored . 
the film opens with what sounds like family drama theme music , when truman's world is still beautiful and perfect . 
when the movie ends , the score sounds more like a frantic , driven , tangerine dream opus , while still keeping the same timbre . 
philip glass' epic music ( from powaqqatsi ) permeates truman's scenes of suspicion and awakening . 
 ( glass has a small cameo as a keyboardist for the show . ) 
and the pacing of the story was brisk . 
there was no unnecessarily long setup explaining the concept behind the truman show , just a few quick title cards , a few interviews , and then right into the show , and the movie . 
one of the first scenes is of the studio light falling ; there was no token scene of truman's idyllic life before it falls apart , because it wasn't necessary , we pick up the story at the first sign of trouble , and no sooner . 
there's also no point in the movie where the plot slows down . 
it's a quick , straight shot to the movie's end . 
in terms of overall quality , i would compare the truman show to niccol's gattaca . 
both films are well made with interesting stories set in interesting worlds . 
but neither film really felt like it capitalized on all the great ideas ; neither film " clicked " and became an instant classic . 
nevertheless , i look forward to niccol's next film , whatever it may be . 
